 
 
 
 
 
1.
  
Nurse-Led Computerized Cognitive Training for Mild Cognitive Impairment: A
Preliminary Study.
Oh MW, Ki YJ, Jeon BH, Kim SY, Oh Y, Yoo S, Cho A, Seo JH, Lee GJ
Rehabilitation Nursing Journal.  2020 04 15.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32304482
PURPOSE: This preliminary study aimed to compare the outcomes of an
occupational therapist-led and a nurse-led computerized cognitive training (CCT) for
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in older adults.
DESIGN: A single-blind randomized controlled trial was performed.
METHODS: Participants 65 years of age and older with MCI were randomly assigned
to a group led by an occupational therapist or by a nurse. Both groups received CCT
for 4 weeks.
FINDINGS: Six participants in the occupational therapist-led group and nine in the
nurse-led group completed CCT. The nurse-led group showed significant
improvement in scores on the Seoul Verbal Learning Test-Elderly's version
immediate recall scores (p = .030) and the Korean-Boston Naming Test (p = .012).
CONCLUSIONS: Nurse-led CCT demonstrated improvement in some language and
memory areas in older adults with MCI.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study supports the idea of educating nurses to use a
CCT program for treating older adults with MCI to improve their cognitive function.
Version ID
1
Status
Publisher
Authors Full Name
Oh, Min Woo, Ki, Young Jin, Jeon, Byoung Hyun, Kim, Si Yeon, Oh, Youngmin, Yoo,
Suwon, Cho, Aeri, Seo, Joo Han, Lee, Goo Joo
Institution
Oh, Min Woo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.   Oh, Min Woo. Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine,
Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Ki, Young Jin. CNC Yullyang Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Jeon, Byoung Hyun. CNC Yullyang Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Si Yeon. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Oh, Youngmin. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Yoo, Suwon. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Cho, Aeri. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Seo, Joo Han. M3 Solution Co., Ltd, Daegu-si, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Goo Joo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Goo Joo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
College of Medicine, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
2.
  
Shenqi Xingnao Granules ameliorates cognitive impairments and Alzheimer's
disease-like pathologies in APP/PS1 mouse model.
Yang CC, Jia XY, Zhang L, Li YL, Zhang ZJ, Li L, Zhang L
Chinese Herbal Medicines. 12(4):421-429, 2020 Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 36120170
Objective: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is along with cognitive decline due to amyloid-
beta (Abeta) plaques, tau hyperphosphorylation, and neuron loss. Shenqi Xingnao
Granules (SQXN), a traditional Chinese medicine, significantly ameliorated the
cognitive function and daily living abilities of patients with AD. However, till date, no
study has investigated the mechanism of action of SQXN on AD. The present study
aimed to verify the effects of SQXN treatment on cognitive impairments and AD-like
pathologies in APP/PS1 mice.
Methods: Four-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic (Tg) mice were randomly divided into
a model group and SQXN-treated (3.5, 7, 14 g/kg per day) groups. Learning-memory
abilities were determined by Morris water maze and object recognition test. All mice
were sacrificed and the brain samples were collected after 75 d. The soluble Abeta
contents were detected by Elisa kit; The levels of expression of NeuN, APP,
phosphorylated tau and related protein were measured by Western blotting; The
inflammation factors were detected by the proinflammatory panel kit.
Results: Four-month-old APP/PS1 mice were administered SQXN by oral gavage for
2.5 months. Using the Morris water maze tests and Novel object recognition, we
found that SQXN restored behavioral deficits in the experimental group of Tg mice
when compared with the controls. SQXN also inhibited neuronal loss (NeuN marker).
SQXN treatment decreased soluble Abeta42 through inhibiting the expression of
sAPPbeta and BACE-1 without regulating full-length amyloid precursor protein (FL
APP). Insulin degrading enzyme (IDE), the Abeta degrading enzyme, were increased
by SQXN. In addition, SQXN reduced hyperphosphorylated tau protein levels and
prevented excessive activation of p-GSK-3beta in the brain of APP/PS1 mice.
Compared with APP/PS1 transgenic negative mice, IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4,
IL-5, IL-6, IL-12p70, KC/GRO and TNF-alpha were not obviously changed in the
brain of 6.5-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic (Tg) mice. However, SQXN could
inhibited the expression of IL-2.
Conclusion: These results demonstrate that SQXN ameliorates the cognitive
impairments in APP/PS1 mice. The possible mechanisms involve its inhibition of
neuronal loss, soluble Abeta deposition, tau hyperphosphorylation and inflammation.
Copyright © 2020 Tianjin Press of Chinese Herbal Medicines. Published by
ELSEVIER B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yang, Cui-Cui, Jia, Xiao-Yu, Zhang, Li, Li, Ya-Li, Zhang, Zhan-Jun, Li, Lin, Zhang,
Lan
InstitutionYang, Cui-Cui. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical
University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center
for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry
of Education, Beijing 100053, China.   Jia, Xiao-Yu. Department of Pharmacy,
Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders,
Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for
Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Li. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Li, Ya-Li. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Zhan-Jun. State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning &
IDG/McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing
100875, China.
Zhang, Zhan-Jun. BABRI Centre, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China.
Li, Lin. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Lan. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical
University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center
for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry
of Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
3.
  
Psychological treatments for people with epilepsy. [Review]
Michaelis R, Tang V, Nevitt SJ, Wagner JL, Modi AC, LaFrance WC Jr, Goldstein LH,
Gandy M, Bresnahan R, Valente K, Donald KA, Reuber M
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 8:CD012081, 2020 Sep 07.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 35653266
BACKGROUND: Given the significant impact epilepsy may have on the health-
related quality of life (HRQOL) of individuals with epilepsy and their families, there is
increasing clinical interest in evidence-based psychological treatments, aimed at
enhancing psychological and seizure-related outcomes for this group. This is an
updated version of the original Cochrane Review published in Issue 10, 2017.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the impact of psychological treatments for people with
epilepsy on HRQOL outcomes.
SEARCH METHODS: For this update, we searched the following databases on 12
August 2019, without language restrictions: Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS
Web), which includes randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials from theSpecialized Registers of Cochrane Review Groups including Epilepsy, the Cochrane
Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to 09
August 2019), and PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, 1887 onwards), and from PubMed,
Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the World Health Organization International Clinical
Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). We screened the references from included studies
and relevant reviews, and contacted researchers in the field for unpublished studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and
quasi-RCTs for this review. HRQOL was the main outcome. For the operational
definition of 'psychological treatments', we included a broad range of skills-based
psychological treatments and education-only interventions designed to improve
HRQOL, seizure frequency and severity, as well as psychiatric and behavioral health
comorbidities for adults and children with epilepsy. These psychological treatments
were compared to treatment as usual (TAU), an active control group (such as social
support group), or antidepressant pharmacotherapy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological
procedures expected by Cochrane.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 36 completed RCTs, with a total of 3526 participants.
Of these studies, 27 investigated skills-based psychological interventions. The
remaining nine studies were education-only interventions. Six studies investigated
interventions for children and adolescents, three studies investigated interventions for
adolescents and adults, and the remaining studies investigated interventions for
adults. Based on satisfactory clinical and methodological homogeneity, we pooled
data from 11 studies (643 participants) that used the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31
(QOLIE-31) or other QOLIE inventories (such as QOLIE-89 or QOLIE-31-P)
convertible to QOLIE-31. We found significant mean changes for the QOLIE-31 total
score and six subscales (emotional well-being, energy and fatigue, overall QoL,
seizure worry, medication effects, and cognitive functioning). The mean changes in
the QOLIE-31 total score (mean improvement of 5.23 points, 95% CI 3.02 to 7.44; P
< 0.001), and the overall QoL score (mean improvement of 5.95 points, 95% CI 3.05
to 8.85; P < 0.001) exceeded the threshold of minimally important change (MIC: total
score: 4.73 points; QoL score: 5.22 points), indicating a clinically meaningful
postintervention improvement in HRQOL. We downgraded the certainty of the
evidence provided by the meta-analysis due to serious risks of bias in some of the
included studies. Consequently, these results provided moderate-certainty evidence
that psychological treatments for adults with epilepsy may enhance overall HRQOL.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Implications for practice: Skills-based psychological
interventions improve HRQOL in adults and adolescents with epilepsy. Adjunctive
use of skills-based psychological treatments for adults and adolescents with epilepsy
may provide additional benefits in HRQOL when these are incorporated into patient-
centered management. We judge the evidence to be of moderate certainty.
IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH: Investigators should strictly adhere to the
CONSORT guidelines to improve the quality of reporting on their interventions. A
thorough description of intervention protocols is necessary to ensure reproducibility.
When examining the effectiveness of psychological treatments for people with
epilepsy, the use of standardized HRQOL inventories, such as the Quality of Life in
Epilepsy Inventories (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, and QOLIE-89) would increase
comparability. Unfortunately, there is a critical gap in pediatric RCTs and RCTs
including people with epilepsy and intellectual disabilities. Finally, in order to increase
the overall quality of RCT study designs, adequate randomization with allocation
concealment and blinded outcome assessment should be pursued. As attrition is
often high in research that requires active participation, an intention-to-treat analysis
should be carried out. Treatment fidelity and treatment competence should also be
assessed. These important dimensions, which are related to 'Risk of bias'
assessment, should always be reported.
Copyright © 2020 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons,
Ltd.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Michaelis, Rosa, Tang, Venus, Nevitt, Sarah J, Wagner, Janelle L, Modi, Avani C,
LaFrance, William Curt Jr, Goldstein, Laura H, Gandy, Milena, Bresnahan, Rebecca,
Valente, Kette, Donald, Kirsten A, Reuber, Markus
Institution
Michaelis, Rosa. Department of Neurology Gemeinschaftskrankenhaus Herdecke,
University of Witten/Herdecke, Herdecke, Germany.   Tang, Venus. Division of
Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hospital Authority, Hong Kong.
Tang, Venus. Department of Clinical Psychology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hospital
Authority, Hong Kong.
Nevitt, Sarah J. Department of Biostatistics, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
Wagner, Janelle L. College of Nursing, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, USA.
Modi, Avani C. Division of Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology, Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine,
Cincinnati, USA.
LaFrance, William Curt Jr. Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, Brown
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
Goldstein, Laura H. Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology
and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
Gandy, Milena. Department of Psychology, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.
Bresnahan, Rebecca. Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, Institute
of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
Valente, Kette. Faculty of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo (HCFMUSP), Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
Donald, Kirsten A. Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
Reuber, Markus. Academic Neurology Unit, University of Sheffield, Royal
Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, UK.
Other Abstract
Publisher
:          (HRQOL)        ,                   .  2017  10         . :      HRQOL    .  :       2019 8 12
. CRS (Cochrane Register of Studies, CRS Web) , Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials( ), MEDLINE(Ovid, 1946 ~ 2019 8)  PycINFO(EBSCO , 1887)
 .inicalTrials.gov   (WHO)    (ICTRP).         ,        .   :     (RCT) RCT  . HRQOL  . ' '   ,
HRQOL,                ,            .      (TAU),  ( ),    .    :        .  :  3526   36   RCT  .    27
.  9     .  .      6, .     3,       .          31(QOLIE-31)  QOLIE-31   QOLIE (QOLIE-89
QOLIE-31-P)  11 (643 )   . QOLIE-31  6  (  ,   ,  QoL,  ,   ,   )     . QOLIE-31 (5.23, 95%
CI 3.02~7.44, P < 0.001),  QoL (5.95, 95% CI 3.05~8.85, P < 0.001)        (MIC: )  .
4.73, QoL : 5.22)) HRQOL         .               .  ,         HRQOL         .  :   :          HRQOL .
             HRQOL      .      .   :               .         .       ,  (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, QOLIE-
89)    HRQOL      .          RCT RCT   .  , RCT                 .             .      . ' '         .
Language: Korean   Publisher
:       (health-related quality of life; HRQOL)  ,      ,    ,    ,  .        10, 2017 . :
HRQOL.  : 12  2019,   ,          :      (CRS Web),    -             ,            (CENTRAL)
MEDLINE (Ovid 1946 09  2019) PsycINFO (EBSCOhost 1887 ) PubMed Embase
ClinicalTrials.gov           (ICTRP)  .         .   :       (randomised controlled trials; RCTs) -
RCT     .   HRQOL .    <<  >>,         HRQoL,  (seizure)           .   , (treatment as usual;
TAU),   (   ),   -   .     :        .  : 36 RCT  , 3526     .   , 27     .  . , ,     .      ,  11 (643   )     -
31 (QOLIE-31)     QOLIE ( QOLIE-89  QOLIE-31-P)  QOLIE-31  ,    .       QOLIE-31  (
 (well-being) ,  , QoL  ,   ,    )   .     QOLIE-31 (   5.23 95% CI 3.02 7.44 P <0.001) QoL
  (   5.95 95% CI 3.05 8.85 P < 0.001)   : (MIC:  : 4.73  QoL: 5.22  ),     HRQOL .
(meta-analysis)     (bias)  ,     .  ,             HRQOL    .       :   :   , HRQOL   .
HRQOL      -   .     .    :    CONSORT         .            .       ,  HRQOL     (QOLIE-31
QOLIE-31-P QOLIE-89)     .    RCT    RCT      .  ,       , RCT              .           ,(attrition) ,   (intention-to-treat)  .       .  ,    <<   (bias)>>  ,    .
Language: Persian
Publisher
CONTEXTE: Etant donne l'impact significatif que l'epilepsie peut avoir sur la qualite
de vie liee a la sante (QVLS) des personnes epileptiques et de leurs familles, il existe
un interet clinique croissant pour les traitements psychologiques bases sur des
donnees probantes visant a ameliorer les criteres de jugement psychologiques et lies
aux crises pour ce groupe. Ceci est une version mise a jour de la revue Cochrane
originale publiee dans le numero 10, 2017.OBJECTIFS: Evaluer l'impact des
traitements psychologiques pour les personnes epileptiques sur la QVLS.
STRATEGIE DE RECHERCHE DOCUMENTAIRE: Pour cette mise a jour, nous
avons effectue des recherches dans les bases de donnees suivantes et sans
restrictions de langues jusqu'au 12 aout 2019: Le Registre Cochrane des etudes
(CRS Web), qui comprend des essais controles randomises ou quasi randomises
provenant des registres specialises des groupes de revues Cochrane, dont celui sur
l'epilepsie, le registre Cochrane des essais controles (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid,
de 1946 au 9 aout 2019) et PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, a partir de 1887), ainsi que
PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov et le Systeme d'enregistrement international des
essais cliniques (ICTRP) de l'OMS. Nous avons examine les references des etudes
incluses et des revues pertinentes, et nous avons contacte des chercheurs dans le
domaine pour des etudes non publiees. CRITERES DE SELECTION: Nous avons
pris en compte les essais controles randomises (ECR) et les quasi-ECR pour cette
revue. La QVLS en a ete le principal critere de jugement. Pour la definition
operationnelle de << traitement psychologiques >>, nous avons inclus un large
eventail de traitements psychologiques bases sur les competences, et d'interventions
educatives concues pour ameliorer la QVLS, la frequence et la gravite des crises,
ainsi que les comorbidites psychiatriques et comportementales pour les adultes et
les enfants epileptiques. Ces traitements psychologiques ont ete compares au
traitement habituel (TH), a un groupe temoin actif (tel qu'un groupe de soutien social)
ou a une pharmacotherapie antidepressive. RECUEIL ET ANALYSE DES
DONNEES: Nous avons suivi les procedures methodologiques standard definies par
Cochrane. RESULTATS PRINCIPAUX: Nous avons inclus 36 ECR termines, avec
un total de 3 526 participants. Parmi ces etudes, 27 portaient sur des interventions
psychologiques basees sur les competences. Les neuf autres etudes etaient des
interventions a caractere educatif uniquement. Six etudes ont porte sur les
interventions aupres des enfants et des adolescents, trois sur les interventions
aupres des adolescents et des adultes, et les autres sur les interventions aupres des
adultes. Sur la base d'une homogeneite clinique et methodologique satisfaisante,
nous avons mis en commun les donnees de 11 etudes (643 participants) qui ont
utilise le questionnaire sur la qualite de vie en cas d'epilepsie (QOLIE-31) ou d'autres
questionnaires QOLIE (tels que QOLIE-89 ou QOLIE-31-P) convertibles en QOLIE-
31. Nous avons constate des changements moyens significatifs pour le score total de
QOLIE-31 et pour six sous-echelles (bien-etre emotionnel, energie et fatigue, qualite
de vie globale, inquietudes liees aux crises, effets des medicaments et
fonctionnement cognitif). Les changements moyens du score total de QOLIE-31
(amelioration moyenne de 5,23 points, IC a 95 %, de 3,02 a 7,44 ; P < 0,001), et du
score global de QV (amelioration moyenne de 5,95 points, IC a 95 %, de 3,05 a 8,85
; P < 0,001) ont depasse le seuil de changement important minimal (MIC) (MIC :
score total : 4,73 points ; score de la qualite de vie: 5,22 points), ce qui indique une
amelioration cliniquement significative de la qualite de vie liee a la sante apres
l'intervention. Nous avons declasse le niveau de confiance des donnees probantes
fournies par la meta-analyse en raison de risques serieux de biais dans certaines
des etudes incluses. Par consequent, la valeur probante de ces resultats etait
moderee a propos de l'amelioration de la qualite de vie globale chez les adultes
epileptiques par les traitements psychologiques.CONCLUSIONS DES AUTEURS:
Implications pour la pratique: Les interventions psychologiques basees sur les
competences ameliorent la qualite de vie des adultes et des adolescents
epileptiques. L'utilisation complementaire de traitements psychologiques bases surles competences chez les adultes et les adolescents epileptiques pourrait apporter
des avantages supplementaires en matiere de qualite de vie liee a la sante lorsque
ceux-ci sont integres dans une gestion centree sur le patient. Nous estimons que le
niveau de confiance des donnees probantes est modere. Implications pour la
recherche: Les enqueteurs doivent se conformer strictement aux recommandations
CONSORT afin d'ameliorer la qualite des rapports sur leurs interventions. Une
description complete des protocoles d'intervention est necessaire pour assurer la
reproductibilite. Lors de l'examen de l'efficacite des traitements psychologiques pour
les personnes souffrant d'epilepsie, l'utilisation de questionnaires standardises sur la
qualite de vie, tels que les questionnaires sur la qualite de vie dans l'epilepsie
(QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P et QOLIE-89), permettrait d'accroitre la comparabilite.
Malheureusement, il existe une lacune importante dans les ECR pediatriques et les
ECR incluant les personnes souffrant d'epilepsie et de handicap intellectuel. Enfin,
afin d'ameliorer la qualite globale des plans d'etude des ECR, il convient de
poursuivre une randomisation adequate avec assignation secrete et evaluation des
criteres de jugement en aveugle. Comme le taux d'attrition est souvent eleve dans
les recherches qui necessitent une participation active, il convient de proceder a une
analyse des intentions de traitement. La fidelite au traitement et la competence en
matiere de traitement doivent egalement etre evaluees. Ces dimensions importantes,
qui sont liees a l'evaluation du << risque de biais >>, devraient toujours etre
signalees.
Language: French
Publisher
ANTECEDENTES: Debido al impacto significativo que podria tener la epilepsia sobre
la calidad de vida relacionada con la salud (CdVRS) en los individuos con epilepsia y
sus familias, hay un creciente interes clinico en los tratamientos psicologicos
basados en evidencia, dirigidos a mejorar los desenlaces psicologicos y
relacionados con las crisis para este grupo de personas. Esta es una version
actualizada de la revision Cochrane original publicada en el numero 10,
2017.OBJETIVOS: Evaluar los efectos de los tratamientos psicologicos para los
pacientes con epilepsia en los resultados de la CdVRS. METODOS DE BUSQUEDA:
Para esta actualizacion, se realizaron busquedas en las siguientes bases de datos el
12 de agosto de 2019 sin restricciones de idioma: La Cochrane Register of Studies
(CRS Web),que incluye ensayos controlados aleatorizados o cuasialeatorizados del
registro especializado de los Grupos Cochrane de Revision de Epilepsia, Cochrane
Central de Ensayos Controlados (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 a 9 de agosto
de 2019), y PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, 1887 en adelante), y de PubMed, EMBASE,
ClinicalTrials.gov y la plataforma de registros internacionales de ensayos clinicos
(ICTRP) de la Organizacion Mundial de la Salud. Se examinaron las referencias de
los estudios incluidos y las revisiones pertinentes, y se establecio contacto con los
investigadores del tema para obtener estudios no publicados. CRITERIOS DE
SELECCION: Se consideraron los ensayos controlados aleatorizados (ECA) y los
ensayos controlados cuasialeatorizados para esta revision. La CdVRS fue el
desenlace principal. Para la definicion operativa de "tratamientos psicologicos", se
incluyo un rango amplio de tratamientos psicologicos basados en habilidades e
intervenciones solo educativas disenadas para mejorar la CdVRS, la frecuencia y la
gravedad de las crisis, y las comorbilidades psiquiatricas y conductuales para los
adultos y los ninos con epilepsia. Estos tratamientos psicologicos se compararon con
el tratamiento habitual (TH), un grupo de control activo (como el grupo de apoyo
social) o la farmacoterapia antidepresiva. OBTENCION Y ANALISIS DE LOS
DATOS: Se utilizaron los procedimientos metodologicos estandares previstos por
Cochrane.RESULTADOS PRINCIPALES: Se incluyeron 36 ECA completos con
3526 participantes. De estos, 27 estudios investigaron intervenciones psicologicas
basadas en habilidades. Los nueve estudios restantes fueron intervenciones solo
educativas. Seis estudios investigaron intervenciones para ninos y adolescentes,
tres estudios investigaron intervenciones para adolescentes y adultos, y los
restantes investigaron intervenciones en adultos. De acuerdo con una
homogeneidad clinica y metodologica satisfactoria, se agruparon los datos de 11estudios (643 participantes) que utilizaron la escala para medir la calidad de vida en
la epilepsia Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31 (QOLIE-31) u otros listados QOLIE (como
el QOLIE-89 o el QOLIE-31-P) convertibles a QOLIE-31. Se encontraron cambios
medios significativos para la puntuacion total de la QOLIE-31 y seis subescalas
(bienestar emocional, energia y fatiga, CdV general, preocupacion sobre la crisis,
efectos de la medicacion y funcion cognitiva). Los cambios medios en la puntuacion
total de la QOLIE-31 (mejora media de 5,23 puntos, IC del 95%: 3,02 a 7,44; P <
0,001), y la puntuacion global de la CdV (mejora media de 5,95 puntos, IC del 95%:
3,05 a 8,85; P < 0,001) superaron el umbral de cambio minimo importante (CMI:
puntuacion total: 4,73 puntos; puntuacion de CdV: 5,22 puntos), lo que indica una
mejoria posintervencion clinicamente significativa en la CdVRS. La certeza de la
evidencia aportada por el metanalisis se redujo debido a riesgos graves de sesgo en
algunos de los estudios incluidos. En consecuencia, estos resultados aportaron
evidencia de certeza moderada de que los tratamientos psicologicos para los adultos
con epilepsia pueden mejorar la CdVRS general.CONCLUSIONES DE LOS
AUTORES: Implicaciones para la practica: Las intervenciones psicologicas basadas
en habilidades mejoran la CdVRS en adultos y adolescentes con epilepsia. El uso
adyuvante de terapias psicologicas basadas en habilidades para los adultos y
adolescentes con epilepsia podria proporcionar beneficios adicionales a la CdVRS
cuando se incorporan a un tratamiento centrado en el paciente. Se considero que la
evidencia era de certeza moderada. Implicaciones para la investigacion: Los
investigadores deben adherirse estrictamente a las guias CONSORT para mejorar la
calidad del informe sobre las intervenciones. Una descripcion minuciosa de los
protocolos de intervencion es necesaria para asegurar la reproducibilidad. Cuando
se examina la efectividad de los tratamientos psicologicos para los pacientes con
epilepsia, el uso de listados estandarizados de CdVRS (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, y
QOLIE-89) aumentaria la comparabilidad. Por desgracia, existe una laguna critica en
los ECA pediatricos y ECA que incluyen a personas con epilepsia y discapacidades
intelectuales. Finalmente, para aumentar la calidad general de los disenos de
estudio de ECA, debe aplicarse una asignacion al azar adecuada con ocultacion de
la asignacion y una evaluacion de resultados cegada. Debido a que la desercion a
menudo es alta en la investigacion que requiere la participacion activa, debe
realizarse un analisis de intencion de tratar. Tambien deben evaluarse la fidelidad al
tratamiento y la competencia del tratamiento. Estas importantes dimensiones,
relacionadas con la evaluacion del "riesgo de sesgo", deben ser siempre
comunicadas.
Language: Spanish
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
4.
  
Chinese herbal medicine Qinggongshoutao for the treatment of amnestic mild
cognitive impairment: A 52-week randomized controlled trial.
Tian J, Shi J, Wei M, Ni J, Fang Z, Gao J, Wang H, Yao H, Zhang J, Li J, Min M, Su
L, Sun X, Wang B, Wang B, Yang F, Zou Y, Hu Y, Lin Y, Xu G, Li K, Li L, Zhen H, Xu
J, Chen K, Wang Y, CHARM study group
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions. 5:441-449,2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31517031
INTRODUCTION: This randomized, double-blind trial aimed to test effect of a
Chinese herbal medicine, Qinggongshoutao (QGST) pill, on the cognition and
progression of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI).
METHODS: Patients with aMCI were randomly assigned to receive QGST, Ginkgo
biloba extract, or placebo for 52 weeks. The primary outcome measures were
progression to possible or probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and change in
Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale scores; secondary
outcome measures included assessments for cognition and function.
RESULTS: Total 350 patients were enrolled, possible or probable AD developed in
10. There were significant differences in the probability of progression to AD in the
QGST group (1.15%) compared with placebo group (10%). There was significant
difference in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale scores in
favor of QGST over the placebo group. Secondary outcome measure (Mini-Mental
State Examination) also showed benefit in QGST at end point.
DISCUSSION: In patients with aMCI, QGST showed lower AD progression rate than
placebo at 8.85%, and may have benefit on global cognition.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Tian, Jinzhou, Shi, Jing, Wei, Mingqing, Ni, Jingnian, Fang, Zhiyong, Gao, Jinyu,
Wang, Heng, Yao, Hongjun, Zhang, Jintao, Li, Juntao, Min, Min, Su, Likai, Sun,
Xiuqiao, Wang, Baoai, Wang, Baoshen, Yang, Faming, Zou, Yong, Hu, Yueqiang,
Lin, Yaming, Xu, Guangyin, Li, Kang, Li, Lei, Zhen, Hui, Xu, Jinyan, Chen, Keji,
Wang, Yongyan, CHARM study group
Institution
Tian, Jinzhou. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China.   Shi, Jing. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Wei, Mingqing. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of
Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Ni, Jingnian. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China.
Fang, Zhiyong. Department of Neurology, Xiangyang Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Xiangyang, Henan Province, China.
Gao, Jinyu. Department of Neurology, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China.
Wang, Heng. Department of Neurology, Tianjin Nankai Hospital, Tianjin, China.
Yao, Hongjun. Department of Neurology, Yuncheng Central Hospital, Yuncheng,
Shanxi Province, China.
Zhang, Jintao. Department of Neurology, 88th Hospital of PLA, Taian, Shandong
Province, China.
Li, Juntao. Department of Neurology, Handan Central Hospital, Handan, Hebei
Province, China.
Min, Min. Department of Neurology, Tengzhou Central People's Hospital,
Zaozhuang, Shandong Province, China.
Su, Likai. Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Hebei University,
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, China.
Sun, Xiuqiao. Department of Neurology, First Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, China.
Wang, Baoai. Department of Neurology, Shanxi Fenyang Hospital, Lvliang, Shanxi
Province, China.
Wang, Baoshen. Department of Neurology, Luohe Hospital of Chinese Medicine,
Luohe, Henan Province, China.Yang, Faming. Department of Neurology, Third Hospital of Shanxi Medical College,
Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, China.
Zou, Yong. Department of Integrated TCM & Western Medicine, Qindao University
Medical College Affiliated Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital, Yantai, Shandong Province,
China.
Hu, Yueqiang. Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi
University of Chinese Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi Province, China.
Lin, Yaming. Department of Neurology, Yunnan Provincial Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Kunming, Yunnan Province, China.
Xu, Guangyin. Department of Neurology, The People's Hospital of Linyi, Linyi,
Shandong Province, China.
Li, Kang. Department of Health Statistics Harbin Medical University, Harbin,
Heilongjiang Province, China.
Li, Lei. Pharmaceutical Research and Clinical Evaluation Center of China Association
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Zhen, Hui. Pharmaceutical Research and Clinical Evaluation Center of China
Association of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Xu, Jinyan. Beijing Kangpaite Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Beijing, China.
Chen, Keji. Institute of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
Wang, Yongyan. Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing China.
Comments
Erratum in (EIN)
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
5.
  
A pilot feasibility randomized controlled trial on combining mind-body physical
exercise, cognitive training, and nurse-led risk factor modification to reduce cognitive
decline among older adults with mild cognitive impairment in primary care.
Xu Z, Zhang D, Lee ATC, Sit RWS, Wong C, Lee EKP, Yip BHK, Tiu JYS, Lam LCW,
Wong SYS
PeerJ. 8:e9845, 2020.
[Clinical Trial]
UI: 33194354
OBJECTIVES: To examine the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of (1)
combining cognitive training, mind-body physical exercise, and nurse-led risk factor
modification (CPR), (2) nurse-led risk factor modification (RFM), and (3) health
advice (HA) on reducing cognitive decline among older adults with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI).
METHODS: It was a 3-arm open-labeled pilot randomized controlled trial in the
primary care setting in Hong Kong. Nineteen older adults with MCI were randomized
to either CPR (n = 6), RFM (n = 7), or HA (n = 6) for 6 months. The primary outcome
was the feasibility of the study. Secondary outcomes included the Alzheimer's
Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog), the Montreal Cognitive
Assessment Hong Kong version (HK-MoCA), the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR),the Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD), quality of life, depression, anxiety,
physical activity, health service utilization, and diet.
RESULTS: Nineteen out the 98 potential patients were recruited, with a recruitment
rate of 19% (95% CI [12-29]%, P = 0.243). The adherence rate of risk factor
modification was 89% (95% CI [65-98]%, P = 0.139) for CPR group and 86% (95%
CI [63-96]%, P = 0.182) for RFM group. In the CPR group, 53% (95% CI [36-70]%, P
= 0.038) of the Tai Chi exercise sessions and 54% (95% CI [37-71]%, P = 0.051) of
cognitive sessions were completed. The overall dropout rate was 11% (95% CI [2-
34]%, P = 0.456). Significant within group changes were observed in HK-MoCA in
RFM (4.50 +/- 2.59, P = 0.008), cost of health service utilization in CPR (-4000,
quartiles: -6800 to -200, P = 0.043), fish and seafood in HA (-1.10 +/- 1.02, P =
0.047), and sugar in HA (2.69 +/- 1.80, P = 0.015). Group x time interactions were
noted on HK-MoCA favoring the RFM group (P = 0.000), DAD score favoring CPR
group (P = 0.027), GAS-20 favoring CPR group (P = 0.026), number of servings of
fish and seafood (P = 0.004), and sugar (P < 0.001) ate per day.
CONCLUSIONS: In this pilot study, RFM and the multi-domain approach CPR were
feasible and had preliminary beneficial effects in older adults with MCI in primary
care setting in Hong Kong.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR1800015324).
Copyright ©2020 Xu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Xu, Zijun, Zhang, Dexing, Lee, Allen T C, Sit, Regina W S, Wong, Carmen, Lee, Eric
K P, Yip, Benjamin H K, Tiu, Jennifer Y S, Lam, Linda C W, Wong, Samuel Y S
Institution
Xu, Zijun. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of Public
Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Zhang, Dexing. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lee, Allen T C. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Sit, Regina W S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Wong, Carmen. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lee, Eric K P. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Yip, Benjamin H K. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School
of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Tiu, Jennifer Y S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lam, Linda C W. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Wong, Samuel Y S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School
of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
6.
  
Depression after Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: A Systematic Review. [Review]
Tang WK, Wang L, Kwok Chu Wong G, Ungvari GS, Yasuno F, Tsoi KKF, Kim JS
Journal of Stroke. 22(1):11-28, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32027789
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Depression is common and debilitating illness
accompanying many neurological disorders including non-traumatic subarachnoid
hemorrhage (SAH). The aim of this systematic review was to identify and critically
appraise all published studies that have reported the frequency, severity and time
course of depression after SAH, the factors associated with its development and the
impact of depression on patients' quality of life after SAH.
METHODS: The PubMed database was searched for studies published in English
that recruited at least 40 patients (>18 years old) after SAH who were also diagnosed
with depression.
RESULTS: Altogether 55 studies covering 6,327 patients met study entry criteria.
The frequency of depression ranged from 0% to 61.7%, with a weighted proportion of
28.1%. Depression remained common even several years after the index SAH.
Depression after SAH was associated with female sex, premorbid depression,
anxiety, substance use disorders or any psychiatric disorders, and coping styles.
Comorbid cognitive impairment, fatigue, and physical disability also increased the
risk of depression. Aneurysmal SAH and infarction may be related to depression as
well. Depression reduces the quality of life and life satisfaction in patients after SAH.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression is common after SAH and seems to persist. Further
research is needed to clarify its time course and identify the neuroendocrine and
neurochemical factors and brain circuits associated with the development of post-
SAH depression. Randomized controlled treatment trials targeting SAH-related
depression are warranted.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Tang, Wai Kwong, Wang, Lisha, Kwok Chu Wong, George, Ungvari, Gabor S,
Yasuno, Fumihiko, Tsoi, Kelvin K F, Kim, Jong S
Institution
Tang, Wai Kwong. Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, China.   Wang, Lisha. Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Kwok Chu Wong, George. Department of Surgery, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, China.
Ungvari, Gabor S. University of Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, Australia.
Ungvari, Gabor S. Division of Psychiatry, Medical School, University of Western
Australia, Crawley, Australia.
Yasuno, Fumihiko. Department of Psychiatry, National Center for Geriatrics and
Gerontology, Obu, Japan.
Tsoi, Kelvin K F. Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, ChineseUniversity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Tsoi, Kelvin K F. Stanley Ho Big Data Decision Analytics Research Centre, Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Kim, Jong S. Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
7.
  
Prevalence of Obesity in India and Its Neurological Implications: A Multifactor
Analysis of a Nationwide Cross-Sectional Study.
Venkatrao M, Nagarathna R, Majumdar V, Patil SS, Rathi S, Nagendra H
Annals of Neurosciences. 27(3-4):153-161, 2020 Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34556954
BACKGROUND: India is undergoing a rapid epidemiological transition, from
underweight to overweight/obese population. Obesity is a major risk factor in type 2
diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, and is also implicated as a factor in
neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. A robust, pan-Indian estimate of
obesity is not yet available.
PURPOSE: This study estimates the pan-Indian prevalence of obesity, stratified
across nonmodifiable (age and gender) and modifiable (education and physical
activity levels) factors, and across zones and urban/rural.
METHODOLOGY: Data for 1,00,531 adults from a nationwide randomized cluster
sample survey (Niyantrita Madhumeha Bharata 2017, phase 1) were analyzed.
Obesity was determined using body mass index, and cross-tabulations were
calculated across zones, age, gender, education, physical activity, and area. To
determine statistical significance, t-tests were used. The odds of obesity within each
category of the various factors were calculated using binary logistic regression.
RESULTS: Prevalence of obesity in India is 40.3%. Zonal variations were seen as
follows: south highest at 46.51% and east lowest at 32.96%. Obesity was higher
among women than men (41.88% vs. 38.67%), urban than rural (44.17% vs.
36.08%), and over 40 than under 40 (45.81% vs. 34.58%). More education implied a
higher obesity (44.6% college vs. 38% uneducated), as did lowered physical activity
(43.71% inactive vs. 32.56% vigorously active). The odds ratio for physical activity
was 3.83, stronger than age (1.58), education (1.4), urban (1.3), and gender (1.2).
CONCLUSION: Obesity levels in India are very high, across all zones. The odds of
being obese increases with age, and is higher among women and among urban
dwellers. Obesity is the highest among aging urban men and women who are college
educated and are sedentary. Physical activity and aging are the strongest
determinants of obesity. Given the high cost of obesity in terms of type 2 diabetes,
cardiovascular diseases, and Alzheimer's disease, urgent public health measures are
necessary to reduce its impact.
Copyright © 2021 Indian Academy of Neurosciences (IAN).
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Venkatrao, Murali; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6677-045X 
Authors Full Name
Venkatrao, Murali, Nagarathna, Raghuram, Majumdar, Vijaya, Patil, Suchitra S,
Rathi, Sunanda, Nagendra, Hongasandra
Institution
Venkatrao, Murali. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University,
Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.   Nagarathna, Raghuram.
Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani,
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Majumdar, Vijaya. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Patil, Suchitra S. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Rathi, Sunanda. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Nagendra, Hongasandra. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University,
Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
8.
  
Ameliorative Effects of Different Transcranial Electrical Stimulation Paradigms on the
Novel Object Recognition Task in a Rat Model of Alzheimer Disease.
Zarifkar AH, Zarifkar A, Nami M, Rafati A, Aligholi H, Vafaee F
Galen Medical Journal. 8:e1440, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34466513
BACKGROUND: Treatment of Alzheimer as a disease that is associated with
cognitive impairment has been associated with some restrictions. Recently,
researchers have focused on non-pharmacological treatments, including non-
invasive stimulation of the brain by transcranial electrical stimulation (tES). Four main
paradigms of transcranial electrical current include transcranial direct current
stimulation (tDCS), transcranial alternative current stimulation (tACS), transcranial
random noise stimulation (tRNS), transcranial pulse current stimulation (tPCS). The
tDCS is a possible new therapeutic option for patients with cognitive impairment,
including Alzheimer disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was done on Sprague-Dawley male rats
weighing 250-270 g. to develop Alzheimer's model, the cannula was implanted
bilaterally into the hippocampus. Abeta 25-35 (5mug/ 2.5microl/day) was
microinjected bilaterally for 4 days. Then, an electrical stimulation paradigm was
applied to the animal for 6 days. Animal cognitive capacity was evaluated on day 11
and 12 by novel object recognition (NOR) test.
RESULTS: Our results showed that application of tDCS; tACS; tRNS and tPCS
reversed beta-amyloid-induced impairment (P<0.05). The tRNS Group spent total
exploration time around the objects compared to other groups (P<0.05). There wasno significant difference between the four different paradigms in discrimination ratio
and the percentage of total exploration time.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study showed that the use of multiple sessions of
different tES paradigms could improve Abeta-induced memory impairment in the
NOR test. Therefore, based on evidence, it can be expected that in addition to using
tDCS, other stimulatory paradigms may also be considered in the treatment of AD.
Copyright© 2019, Galen Medical Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarifkar, Amir Hossein, Zarifkar, Asadollah, Nami, Mohammad, Rafati, Ali, Aligholi,
Hadi, Vafaee, Farzaneh
Institution
Zarifkar, Amir Hossein. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Zarifkar, Asadollah. Department of
Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Nami, Mohammad. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Nami, Mohammad. DANA Brain Health Institute, Iranian Neuroscience Society, Fars
Chapter, Shiraz, Iran.
Rafati, Ali. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Aligholi, Hadi. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical Sciences
and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
9.
  
Effect of Cuscuta epithymum Acquainted with Risperidone on the Improvement of
Clinical Symptoms and Cognitive Impairment in Patients with Schizophrenia: A
Triple-Blind Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial.
Parvizi M, Fadai F, Khodaei-Ardakani MR, Amin G, Abdi L, Noroozi M, Ansari I
Galen Medical Journal. 8:e1334, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34466495
BACKGROUND: Cuscuta epithymum (CE) is an established medicinal herb utilized
for treating psychosis in Persian medicine. The aim of this study was to investigate
the effect of CE combined with risperidone on the clinical symptoms and the
cognitive impairment in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this triple-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial,
the intervention group received a dose of 500 mg of CE in the form of a capsule to be
taken twice a day accompanied by an appropriate dose of risperidone. The control
group was presented with a placebo identical to that of the CE capsule plus theallocated dose of risperidone. The PANSS and SCoRS questionnaires were used to
assess the status of subjects prior to the initiation of the intervention as well as being
put to use at the end of the second, fourth, and eighth week post-intervention.
Registering and recording intel concerning positive and negative symptoms felt by
participants (PANNS), and a test to assess the cognitive impairment of the
individuals.
RESULTS: After eight weeks of treatment, all negative and positive symptoms
besides hostility and somatic concern exhibited a significant improvement in the CE
group (P <0.05). In contrast, the CE placebo group displayed no substantial
improvement in the cases of the positive, negative and general symptoms (P>0.05)
regarding cognitive impairment, after eight weeks of treatment, all symptoms were
greatly improved in the CE group (P<0.05), while the effect of the placebo on the
patients cognitive impairment remained mostly stationary (P>0.05). Consequently,
after eight weeks after the intervention, we can determine that the CE treatment has
been noticeably more effective at improving positive, negative and cognitive
symptoms of patients with schizophrenia.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrated that CE, possessing possible
antioxidant and neuroprotective properties, safely improved the positive and negative
symptoms, and cognitive impairment of patients with schizophrenia.
Copyright© 2019, Galen Medical Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Parvizi, Maedeh, Fadai, Farbod, Khodaei-Ardakani, Moahammad Reza, Amin,
Gholamreza, Abdi, Leila, Noroozi, Mehdi, Ansari, Iman
Institution
Parvizi, Maedeh. Department of Psychiatry, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Fadai, Farbod. Department of Psychiatry,
University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Khodaei-Ardakani, Moahammad Reza. Department of Psychiatry, University of
Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Amin, Gholamreza. Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Abdi, Leila. Department of Traditional Medicine, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Noroozi, Mehdi. Department of Psychiatry, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Ansari, Iman. Medical Students Research Committee, Shahed University, Tehran,
Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
10.
  
Dalteparin as a Novel Therapeutic Agent to Prevent Diabetic Encephalopathy by
Targeting Oxidative Stress and Inflammation.Zeinivand M, Nahavandi A, Baluchnejadmojarad T, Roghani M, Golab F
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(6):795-804, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33850616
INTRODUCTION: Hepcidin is the main modulator of systemic iron metabolism, and
its role in the brain has been clarified recently. Studies have shown that hepcidin
plays an important role in neuronal iron load and inflammation. This issue is of
significance because neuronal iron load and inflammation are pathophysiological
processes that are highly linked to neurodegeneration. Moreover, the activity of
hepcidin has recently been manipulated to recover the neuronal impairment caused
by brain inflammation in animal models.
METHODS: Streptozotocin (STZ) was used to induce type 1 diabetes. Male Wistar
rats (n = 40) with a weight range of 200-250 g were divided into control, diabetic,
diabetic + insulin, and diabetic + dalteparin groups. Dalteparin (100 mg/kg IP) and
insulin (100 mg/kg SC) were administered for 8 weeks. At the end of the experiment,
Y-maze and passive avoidance tasks were carried out. The animals were perfused
randomly and their hippocampal tissue was isolated for the analysis of markers such
as lipid peroxidation like Malondialdehyde (MDA), hepcidin expression, iron, and
ferritin. Blood samples were taken for the measurement of serum inflammatory
cytokine Interleukin (IL)-6.
RESULTS: The findings indicated that treatment with dalteparin reduced IL-6, MDA,
ferritin, and hepcidin expression in diabetic rats compared to treatment with insulin
(P<0.05). Moreover, treatment with dalteparin did not decrease the iron level or
prevented its decline.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with dalteparin improved the cognitive dysfunctions and
symptoms of Alzheimer disease in STZ-induced diabetic rats by appropriately
modulating and reducing oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. This may enhance
the existing knowledge of therapeutics to reduce cognitive impairment in diabetes
and is suggested to be a potential therapeutic agent in diabetes.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Zeinivand, Motahareh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0556-9525   Nahavandi,
Arezo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5317-6056 
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2703-728X 
Roghani, Mehrdad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9209-8484 
Golab, Fereshteh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2829-7881 
Authors Full Name
Zeinivand, Motahareh, Nahavandi, Arezo, Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht,
Roghani, Mehrdad, Golab, Fereshteh
Institution
Zeinivand, Motahareh. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kermanshah
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.   Nahavandi, Arezo. Department
of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Iran, Iran.
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine,
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Iran, Iran.
Roghani, Mehrdad. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shahed
University, Tehran, Iran.
Golab, Fereshteh. Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
11.
  
Association of Variants in PINX1 and TREM2 With Late-Onset Alzheimer Disease.
Tosto G, Vardarajan B, Sariya S, Brickman AM, Andrews H, Manly JJ, Schupf N,
Reyes-Dumeyer D, Lantigua R, Bennett DA, De Jager PL, Mayeux R
JAMA Neurology. 76(8):942-948, 2019 Aug 01.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31058951
IMPORTANCE: Genetic causes of late-onset Alzheimer disease (LOAD) are not
completely explained by known genetic loci. Whole-exome and whole-genome
sequencing can improve the understanding of the causes of LOAD and provide initial
steps required to identify potential therapeutic targets.
OBJECTIVE: To identify the genetic loci for LOAD across different ethnic groups.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This multicenter cohort study was
designed to analyze whole-exome sequencing data from a multiethnic cohort using a
transethnic gene-kernel association test meta-analysis, adjusted for sex, age, and
principal components, to identify genetic variants associated with LOAD. A meta-
analysis was conducted on the results of 2 independent studies of whole-exome and
whole-genome sequence data from individuals of European ancestry. This group of
European American, African American, and Caribbean Hispanic individuals
participating in an urban population-based study were the discovery cohort; the
additional cohorts included affected individuals and control participants from 2
publicly available data sets. Replication was achieved using independent data sets
from Caribbean Hispanic families with multiple family members affected by LOAD
and the International Genetics of Alzheimer Project.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Late-onset Alzheimer disease.
RESULTS: The discovery cohort included 3595 affected individuals, while the
additional cohorts included 5931 individuals with LOAD and 5504 control participants.
Of 3916 individuals in the discovery cohort, we included 3595 individuals (1397 with
LOAD and 2198 cognitively healthy controls; 2451 [68.2%] women; mean [SD] age,
80.3 [6.83] years). Another 321 individuals (8.2%) were excluded because of non-
LOAD diagnosis, age younger than 60 years, missing covariates, duplicate data, or
genetic outlier status. Gene-based tests that compared affected individuals (n =
7328) and control participants (n = 7702) and included only rare and uncommon
variants annotated as having moderate-high functional effect supported PINX1
(8p23.1) as a locus with gene-wide significance (P = 2.81 x 10-6) after meta-analysis
across the 3 studies. The PINX1 finding was replicated using data from the family-
based study and the International Genetics of Alzheimer Project. Full meta-analysis
of discovery and replication cohorts reached a P value of 6.16 x 10-7 for PINX1 (in
7620 affected individuals vs 7768 control participants). We also identified TREM2 in
an  annotation model that prioritized highly deleterious variants with a combined
annotation dependent depletion greater than 20 (P= 1.0 x 10-7).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This gene-based, transethnic approach
identified PINX1, a gene involved in telomere integrity, and TREM2, a gene with a
product of an immune receptor found in microglia, as associated with LOAD. Both
genes have well-established roles in aging and neurodegeneration.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINEAuthors Full Name
Tosto, Giuseppe, Vardarajan, Badri, Sariya, Sanjeev, Brickman, Adam M, Andrews,
Howard, Manly, Jennifer J, Schupf, Nicole, Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly, Lantigua, Rafael,
Bennett, David A, De Jager, Phillip L, Mayeux, Richard
Institution
Tosto, Giuseppe. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.   Tosto, Giuseppe. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Tosto, Giuseppe. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Vardarajan, Badri. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Vardarajan, Badri. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Sariya, Sanjeev. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Sariya, Sanjeev. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Brickman, Adam M. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
Brickman, Adam M. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Brickman, Adam M. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Andrews, Howard. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Andrews, Howard. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Andrews, Howard. Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Manly, Jennifer J. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Manly, Jennifer J. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Manly, Jennifer J. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Schupf, Nicole. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Lantigua, Rafael. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NewYork.
Lantigua, Rafael. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Lantigua, Rafael. Department of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, The New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Bennett, David A. Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, Illinois.
De Jager, Phillip L. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
De Jager, Phillip L. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
De Jager, Phillip L. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Mayeux, Richard. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
12.
  
Bufo viridis secretions improve anxiety and depression-like behavior following
intracerebroventricular injection of amyloid beta.
Shirzad S, Neamati A, Vafaee F, Ghazavi H
Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences. 15(6):571-582, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33828600
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Venenum Bufonis is a Chinese traditional
medicine produced from the glandular secretions of toads that contain biogenic
amines, which have anti-inflammatory properties. The present study aimed to
examine the effect of Bufo viridis secretions (BVS) on anxiety and depression-like
behavior and hippocampal senile plaques volume in an animal model of Alzheimer's
disease (AD).
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Thirty-eight male Wistar rats were used. AD was
induced by amyloid-beta (Abeta1-42) (10 mug/2 muL, intracerebroventricular
injection, icv) and then BVS at 20, 40, and 80 mg/kg were injected intraperitoneally
(ip) in six equal intervals over 21 days. Anxiety and depression-like behavior were
assessed using behavioral tests including open field test (OFT), elevated plus maze
(EPM), and forced swimming test (FST) 21 days after the surgery. The volume ofsenile plaques was assessed based on the Cavalieri principle.
FINDINGS/RESULTS: Results of the OFT showed that the central crossing number
and the time in the AD group were significantly decreased compared to the sham
group (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001, respectively). Also, the values of these two
parameters significantly increased in the AD + BVS80 group than the AD group (P <
0.05 and P < 0.001, respectively). The time spent in the closed arm in the EPM
dramatically increased in the AD group compared to the sham group (P < 0.05) and
significantly decreased in the AD + BVS80 group compared to the AD group (P <
0.05). Results of the FST indicated that immobility time had a reduction in the AD +
BVS20 (P < 0.01), AD + BVS40, and AD + BVS80 groups compared to the AD group
(P < 0.001). The volume of senile plaques in the hippocampus showed a reduction in
the treatment groups in comparison with the AD group (P < 0.001 for all).
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Results revealed that BVS injection could
improve symptoms of anxiety and depression and decrease senile plaques in the
hippocampus in an animal model of AD.
Copyright: © 2020 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shirzad, Shima, Neamati, Ali, Vafaee, Farzaneh, Ghazavi, Hamed
Institution
Shirzad, Shima. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Mashhad Branch, Islamic
Azad University, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.   Neamati, Ali. Department of Biology, Faculty of
Science, Mashhad Branch, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Ghazavi, Hamed. Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Ghazavi, Hamed. Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
13.
  
Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy: Role of Image Guidance in Reducing the
Complications.
Wasi MSI, Sharif S, Shaikh Y
Asian Journal of Neurosurgery. 15(4):926-930, 2020 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33708664
INTRODUCTION: Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is performed by
neurosurgeons around the world for the management of hydrocephalus. ETV has
been associated with multiple complications, the most significant being iatrogenicinjury to the fornix. We aim to establish the fact that the use of image guidance while
planning a trajectory can reduce the incidence of complications as it significantly
alters the usual approach for ETV, i.e., the coronal burr hole can be useful for young
neurosurgeons to overcome the learning curve associated with the procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a prospective, observational study conducted
at Liaquat National Hospital. In this study, 43 patients were included who underwent
ETV for hydrocephalus. Complications were divided into three major groups: arterial
hemorrhage, venous hemorrhage, and injury to neural structures (fornix,
hypothalamus, and oculomotor nerve). The data were compared with studies
showing the complications of ETV with and without usage of image guidance.
RESULTS: Among the 43 patients who underwent ETV with image guidance, only
two patients (4.65%) had iatrogenic fornix contusions. Neither of them developed
memory impairment. None of the patients (0%) encountered other major iatrogenic
complications, including injury to the mammillary body, basilar artery, or oculomotor
nerve.
CONCLUSION: The use of image guidance can reduce trajectory-related
complications, including hemorrhage and iatrogenic injuries to the fornix. This study
showed that the altered trajectory was beneficial in avoiding major neurological
structures while introducing an endoscope through the cortex into the ventricular
system.
Copyright: © 2020 Asian Journal of Neurosurgery.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Wasi, Muhammad Samir Irfan, Sharif, Salman, Shaikh, Yousuf
Institution
Wasi, Muhammad Samir Irfan. Department of Neurosurgery, Hull Royal Infirmary,
Hull, United Kingdom.   Sharif, Salman. Department of Neurosurgery, Liaquat
National Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan.
Shaikh, Yousuf. Department of Neurosurgery, Liaquat National Hospital, Karachi,
Pakistan.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
14.
  
Efficacy of Bacopa Monnieri (Brahmi) and Donepezil in Alzheimer's Disease and Mild
Cognitive Impairment: A Randomized Double-Blind Parallel Phase 2b Study.
Prabhakar S, Vishnu VY, Modi M, Mohanty M, Sharma A, Medhi B, Mittal BR,
Khandelwal N, Goyal MK, Lal V, Singla R, Kansal A, Avasthi A
Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology. 23(6):767-773, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33688125
OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia
worldwide in the older population. There is no disease-modifying therapy available for
AD. The current standard of care drug therapy for AD is cholinesterase inhibitors,including donepezil. Bacopa monnieri or brahmi is used in traditional Indian medicine
for memory loss. We conducted a phase 2b randomized controlled trial (RCT) to find
out the efficacy of brahmi and donepezil in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study was planned as a 52 week, randomized,
double-blind, parallel-group, phase-2 single-center clinical trial comparing the efficacy
and safety of Bacopa monnieri (brahmi) 300 mg OD and donepezil 10 mg OD for 12
months in 48 patients with AD and MCI-AD including cognitive and quality of life
outcomes. The primary outcome was differences in the change from baseline of the
neuropsychological tests [Alzheimer's disease assessment scale-cognitive subscale
(ADAS-Cog) and postgraduate institute (PGI) memory scale] at 12 months between
the intervention group (brahmi) and active comparison group (donepezil).
RESULTS: The study was terminated after 3 years and 9 months, after recruiting 34
patients, because of slow recruitment and a high dropout rate. Intention to treat
analysis after adjusting for baseline confounders showed no difference in the rate of
change in ADAS-Cog score from baseline at any time point, including the last follow-
up. There was no difference in the rate of change in PGI Memory scale (PGIMS) at 3,
6, and 9 months. In the last follow-up, there was a significant difference in the change
in total PGIMS score between brahmi and donepezil, while there was no difference in
individual scores of the PGI memory scale.
CONCLUSION: This phase-2 RCT on the efficacy of brahmi vs. donepezil showed no
significant difference between them after 1 year of treatment. Larger phase-3 trials,
preferably multicentric, are required to find the superiority of brahmi over donepezil.
Copyright: © 2006 - 2020 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Prabhakar, Sudesh, Vishnu, Venugopalan Y, Modi, Manish, Mohanty, Manju,
Sharma, Anchal, Medhi, Bikas, Mittal, B R, Khandelwal, Niranjan, Goyal, Manoj K,
Lal, Vivek, Singla, Rajesh, Kansal, Avinash, Avasthi, Ajit
Institution
Prabhakar, Sudesh. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.   Vishnu, Venugopalan Y. All India
Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Modi, Manish. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Mohanty, Manju. Clinical Neuropsychology, Department of Neurosurgery, Aarogya
Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Sharma, Anchal. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Medhi, Bikas. Department of Pharmacology, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Mittal, B R. Department of Nuclear Medicine, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Khandelwal, Niranjan. Department of Nuclear Medicine, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh,
India.
Goyal, Manoj K. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Lal, Vivek. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Singla, Rajesh. Ayurvedic Consultant, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Kansal, Avinash. Ayurvedic Consultant, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Avasthi, Ajit. Psychiatry, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research,
Chandigarh, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
15.
  
Heterogeneous Influence of Frailty Phenotypes in Age-Related Hearing Loss and
Tinnitus in Chinese Older Adults: An Explorative Study.
Ruan Q, Chen J, Zhang R, Zhang W, Ruan J, Zhang M, Han C, Yu Z
Frontiers in Psychology. 11:617610, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33664689
BACKGROUND: Fried physical frailty, with mobility frailty and non-motor frailty
phenotypes, is a heterogeneous syndrome. The coexistence of the two phenotypes
and cognitive impairment is referred to as cognitive frailty (CF). It remains unknown
whether frailty phenotype has a different association with hearing loss (HL) and
tinnitus.
METHODS: Of the 5,328 community-dwelling older adults, 429 participants aged
>=58 years were enrolled in the study. The participants were divided into robust,
mobility, and non-mobility frailty, mobility and non-mobility CF (subdivided into
reversible and potentially reversible CF, RCF, and PRCF), and cognitive decline
[subdivided into mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and pre-MCI] groups. The severity
and presentations of HL and/or tinnitus were used as dependent variables in the
multivariate logistic or nominal regression analyses with forward elimination adjusted
for frailty phenotype stratifications and other covariates.
RESULTS: Patients with physical frailty (mobility frailty) or who are robust were found
to have lower probability of developing severe HL and tinnitus, and presented HL
and/or tinnitus than those with only cognitive decline, or CF. Patients with RCF and
non-mobility RCF had higher probability with less HL and tinnitus, and the
presentation of HL and/or tinnitus than those with PRCF and mobility RCF. Other
confounders, age, cognitive and social function, cardiovascular disease, depression,
and body mass index, independently mediated the severity of HL and tinnitus, and
presented HL and/or tinnitus.
CONCLUSION: Frailty phenotypes have divergent association with HL and tinnitus.
Further research is required to understand the differential mechanisms and the
personalized intervention of HL and tinnitus.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier, NCT2017K020.
Copyright © 2021 Ruan, Chen, Zhang, Zhang, Ruan, Zhang, Han and Yu.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Ruan, Qingwei, Chen, Jie, Zhang, Ruxin, Zhang, Weibin, Ruan, Jian, Zhang, Min,
Han, Chao, Yu, Zhuowei
Institution
Ruan, Qingwei. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.   Ruan,
Qingwei. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Jie. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.Chen, Jie. Department of Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Ruxin. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Weibin. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Ruan, Jian. Molecular and Cellular Biology Core Facility, Institute of Neuroscience,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Min. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Han, Chao. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Yu, Zhuowei. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Yu, Zhuowei. Department of Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
16.
  
Comparing Copper Serum Level and Cognitive Functioning in Patients With
Schizophrenia and Healthy Controls.
Mazhari S, Arjmand S, Eslami Shahrbabaki M, Karimi Ghoughari E
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(5):649-657, 2020 Sep-Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33643558
INTRODUCTION: The altered serum profiles of several trace elements have been
reported in Schizophrenia (SCZ). This study was designed to elucidate whether the
serum levels of Copper (Cu) and Magnesium (Mg), the two essential trace elements
which contribute to neurotransmitter transmission, are altered in patients with SCZ.
We also investigated whether there is an interrelation between cognitive functioning
and the serum levels of Cu and Mg.
METHODS: Sixty patients with SCZ and 30 healthy controls participated in this study.
The patient group was divided into the following: i) early patients (n=35, <=5 years of
illness initiation), and ii) chronic patients (n=25, >=5 years of illness duration). The
serum levels of Cu and Mg were measured by atomic absorption spectroscopy and
ion-selective electrode potentiometry, respectively. To assess cognitive abilities, a
Persian adaptation of the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS)
was administered.
RESULTS: The present research results revealed significantly higher Cu serum
levels in both patient groups [early patients (M=94.6), chronic patients (M=97.5)],
compared to the controls (M=71.0) (P<0.001); however, no significant difference was
observed among the study groups for Mg [patients with the recent onset (M=2.0),
chronic patients (M=2.0), and controls (M=1.9)] P=0.1. While the serum Cu profile ofhealthy individuals revealed a negative correlation with working memory (r=-0.42,
P=0.02), and executive functioning (r=-0.40, P=0.03), no significant correlation was
observed between Cu serum levels of patients and BACS cognitive domains.
CONCLUSION: findings suggested that the high Cu serum concentration might
impact the cognitive decline in healthy individuals; however, no significant correlation
was observed in the Patients; i.e. most likely because cognition is severely impaired
in SCZ. Additional studies examining trace elements in drug-naive patients with SCZ
are required.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Mazhari, Shahrzad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8601-8989   Arjmand,
Shokouh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5151-8702 
Karimi Ghoughari, Elham; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3748-7599 
Authors Full Name
Mazhari, Shahrzad, Arjmand, Shokouh, Eslami Shahrbabaki, Mahin, Karimi
Ghoughari, Elham
Institution
Mazhari, Shahrzad. Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of Neuropharmacology,
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.   Arjmand, Shokouh.
Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman University
of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Eslami Shahrbabaki, Mahin. Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Karimi Ghoughari, Elham. Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of
Neuropharmacology, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
17.
  
Risk of Fall among Older Adults and its Association with Cognitive Impairment in a
Semi-Urban Community.
Monachan D, Vargese SS, Johny V, Mathew E
Indian Journal of Community Medicine. 45(4):463-466, 2020 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33623202
CONTEXT: Fall in older people is a major public health concern. Two-third of the
death due to fall are preventable. Risk assessment in older adults therefore is the
first step to identify the high-risk group to plan need-based intervention.
AIMS: The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of risk of fall among
older adults and its association with cognitive impairment and sociodemographic
characteristics.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: A cross-sectional study was conducted in the field
practice areas of the department of community medicine in a teaching hospital inSouth Kerala, India.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A semi-structured questionnaire was used to collect
the data. Berg Balance Scale and Mini-Cog Test were used for measuring risk of fall
and cognitive impairment.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: Descriptive statistics and logistic regression were
used for the statistical analysis using SPSS.
RESULTS: Among the older adults, 45% were at risk of fall, 42.4% in males and
57.6% in females. The risk of fall was found to be significantly associated with
cognitive impairment, (odds ratio = 3.89, confidence interval at 95% = 2.06-7.31, P <
0.001). Advanced age, female gender, and unemployed status were significantly
associated with the risk of fall.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of fall prevalence was high and significantly related to
cognitive impairment, advanced age, female gender, and occupational status, with
more than half of those currently not working having a higher risk. The study would
recommend regular follow-up of risk groups for prevention a good percentage of fall
and thereby the related injuries.
Copyright: © 2020 Indian Journal of Community Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Monachan, Dayana, Vargese, Saritha Susan, Johny, Vinny, Mathew, Elsheba
Institution
Monachan, Dayana. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of
Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.   Vargese, Saritha
Susan. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical Sciences
and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Johny, Vinny. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical
Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Mathew, Elsheba. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of
Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
18.
  
Differential Effect of Amyloid Beta1-40 on Short-term and Long-term Plasticity in
Dentate Gyrus of a Rat Model of Alzheimer Disease.
Fahanik-Babaei J, Baluchnejadmojarad T, Roghani M
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):517-524, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613890
INTRODUCTION: Synaptic plasticity is inappropriately affected by
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer Disease (AD). In this study, we
examined the effect of intrahippocampal amyloid-beta (Abeta1-40) on dentate gyrus
Long-term Potentiation (LTP) and presynaptic short-term plasticity in a rat model of
AD.METHODS: The experimental groups in this research included the control with no
treatment, sham-operated receiving the vehicle (normal saline), and Abeta-lesioned
groups. For modeling AD, aggregated Abeta1-40 (10 mug/2 mul on each side) was
injected into the hippocampal CA1. Three weeks later, Population Spike (PS)
amplitude and slope ratios were determined at different Inter-pulse Intervals (IPI) of
10, 20, 30, and 50 ms as a valid indicator of the short-term presynaptic facilitation
and/or depression. In addition, PS amplitude and slope were taken as an index of
long-term synaptic plasticity after application of High-frequency Stimulation (HFS) to
induce LTP in the medial perforant-dentate gyrus pathway.
RESULTS: No significant differences were noted amongst the experimental groups
regarding fEPSP slope and paired-pulse indices as indicators of short-term plasticity.
In contrast, fEPSP slope and PS amplitude significantly decreased following the
application of HFS in Abeta-injected group. In addition, there was no significant
difference between the control and sham-operated groups regarding the mentioned
parameters.
CONCLUSION: Findings of this study clearly demonstrated that microinjection of
Abeta1-40 into the CA1 could impair LTP in dentate gyrus but could not modify short-
term plasticity.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6707-132X
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2703-728X 
Roghani, Mehrdad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9209-8484 
Authors Full Name
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad, Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht, Roghani, Mehrdad
Institution
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad. Physiology Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Physiology Research
Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine,
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Roghani, Mehrdad. Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahed University, Tehran,
Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
19.
  
Crocin Treatment after Maternal Hypoxia Attenuates Spatial Memory Impairment and
Expression of BACE1 and HIF-1alpha in Rat Offspring Brain.
Fahimi Truski F, Ghotbeddin Z, Tabandeh MR, Pourmahdi Borujeni M
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):499-506, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613888INTRODUCTION: Hypoxia via expression of Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1 (HIF-1) is an
important and effective factor in the onset and progression of memory disorders,
such as Alzheimer Disease (AD). The activity of beta-secretase (BACE1) is
increased in hypoxia conditions. BACE1 triggers a cascade of pathological events
resulting in AD. Crocin acts as a memoryimproving agent but its molecular
mechanism is not well-known. Therefore, in this study, the effect of crocin on spatial
memory, HIF-1alpha, and BACE1 gene expression was investigated in rat offspring
under maternal hypoxia.
METHODS: Female pregnant rats on the 20th day of pregnancy were divided into 4
groups, including sham, crocin-treated, hypoxia, and hypoxia group treated with
crocin. In the hypoxia groups, pregnant rats were exposed to 7% oxygen and 93%
nitrogen intensity for 3 h. In the crocin-treated group, crocin (30 mg/kg) was injected
at P14-28 (i.p). At the end, Morris water maze was used to assess spatial memory
and real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to measure the expression
of BACE1 and HIF-1alpha genes in the brain of offspring.
RESULTS: Maternal hypoxia impaired memory compared with the sham group.
However, crocin treatment improved cognitive behavior. HIF-1alpha and BACE1
expressions were upregulated in the brain of offspring in the hypoxia group. Crocin
treatment could attenuate the expression of both genes.
CONCLUSION: According to our results, down-regulation of HIF-1alpha and BACE1
gene expressions in the brain of rat offspring after crocin treatment can be suggested
as a molecular mechanism for crocin to improve spatial memory.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3481-2755
Ghotbeddin, Zohreh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2110-6333 
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3258-8550 
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9478-260X 
Authors Full Name
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh, Ghotbeddin, Zohreh, Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza,
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi
Institution
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh. Department of Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.   Ghotbeddin, Zohreh. Department
of Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz,
Ahvaz, Iran.
Ghotbeddin, Zohreh. Stem Cell and Transgenic Technology Research Center,
Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza. Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza. Stem Cell and Transgenic Technology Research
Center, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi. Department of Food Hygiene, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
20.
  
Protective Effects of Pelargonium graveolens Essential Oil on Methomyl-Induced
Oxidative Stress and Spatial Working Memory Impairment in Association with
Histopathological Changes in the Hippocampus of Male Wistar Rats.
Amine KM, Kahina C, Nawel H, Faiza Z, Jean G, Mohamed T, Saadia M, Ahsene B
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):433-446, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613881
INTRODUCTION: Methomyl (MET) is a carbamate insecticide, used in agriculture
and public health to eliminate harmful insects. Besides its advantages in agriculture,
it causes neurotoxic effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of MET
on Spatial Working Memory (SWM), oxidative stress parameters, and
histopathological changes in the hippocampus, as well as the possible protective role
of Pelargonium graveolens Essential Oil (EO).
METHODS: Male Wistar rats were randomized into four groups of six animals: group
I as the control that received the vehicle; group II received EO (75 mg/kg b.w), group
III received MET (2 mg/kg b.w); and group IV received both MET and EO. The rats
were administered the respective doses orally by gavage for 28 days. SWM was
assessed using Y-maze on the day before the first treatment and day 28 after the last
dose. They were sacrificed by decapitation and their brains were taken for assessing
oxidative stress parameters and histopathological analysis.
RESULTS: MET treatment caused SWM deficits. Furthermore, drastic changes were
observed in aspartate transaminase, alanine aminotransferase, and alkaline
phosphatase activities. The level of malondialdehyde significantly increased,
whereas antioxidant (glutathioneS-transferase and catalase) enzyme activities
significantly decreased. The CA1 region of the hippocampus of rats exposed to MET
revealed severe histological alterations. However, supplementation with EO
improved SWM and partially restored the activities of antioxidant systems and
prevented neuronal cell damage.
CONCLUSION: P. graveolens EO has the potential in mitigating most of the adverse
effects in the hippocampus and prevents SWM impairment induced by MET toxicity.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Amine, Khene M'hammed; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7998-8071   Kahina,
Chabane; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7378-5449 
Nawel, Habchi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2057-993X 
Faiza, Zaida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0274-8114 
Jean, Giaimis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2315-0995 
Mohamed, Toumi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1241-3323 
Saadia, Mameri; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9157-8398 
Ahsene, Baz; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5337-4821 
Authors Full Name
Amine, Khene M'hammed, Kahina, Chabane, Nawel, Habchi, Faiza, Zaida, Jean,
Giaimis, Mohamed, Toumi, Saadia, Mameri, Ahsene, Baz
Institution
Amine, Khene M'hammed. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS
Kouba, Algiers, Algeria.   Kahina, Chabane. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and
Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba, Algiers, Algeria.
Nawel, Habchi. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.Faiza, Zaida. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Jean, Giaimis. UMR Qualisud-Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montpellier,
Montpellier, France.
Mohamed, Toumi. Laboratory of Ethnobotany and Naturel Substances, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Saadia, Mameri. Laboratory of Anatomopathology, Mustapha Bacha Hospital,
Algiers, Algeria.
Ahsene, Baz. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
21.
  
Ibuprofen Protection Against Restrained Chronic Stress-induced Depression in Male
Rats.
Nozari M, Nahavandi A, Zeinivand M, Eslami Gharaati M, Godarzi M, Ahmadi M,
Jamali-Raeufy N
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):413-422, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613879
INTRODUCTION: Stress predisposes organisms to depression and cognitive
impairments, and seems to interact with metabolic homeostasis. The inflammatory
response and the upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines are some of the
consequences related to chronic stress. In this study, we investigated the preventive
effect of chronic administration of ibuprofen, as an inhibitor of cyclooxygenases, on
the cognitive and behavioral alterations and the weight gain reduction induced by
simultaneous chronic restraint stress in rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Male Wistar rats were subjected to chronic restraint
stress and injected daily with the variable doses of ibuprofen or vehicle, for 21
consecutive days. Then, all animals were tested with the forced swim test and
passive avoidance conditioning. Also, the weight of the animals was recorded before
and after the interventions. Ultimately, plasma interleukin 6 (IL-6) levels were
measured.
RESULTS: Chronic stress increased depressive-like behaviors, impaired learning,
and disrupted the normal weight gain. However, the animals that received the highest
dose of ibuprofen showed less depressive-like behaviors, a better avoidance
memory, and a higher weight gain. However, the level of plasma IL-6 did not differ
significantly between the study groups.
CONCLUSION: The administration of ibuprofen prevents the cognitive and
behavioral consequences of chronic stress. During the recovery, the plasma levels of
IL-6 were not elevated by stress, and the IL-6 levels did not predict the behavioral
performance of the stressed animals. The exact mechanisms of the protective effects
of ibuprofen against chronic stress need to be further investigated.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Nozari, Masoumeh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1543-6240   Nahavandi,
Arezo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5317-6056 
Zeinivand, Motahareh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0556-9525 
Eslami Gharaati, Maryam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3899-3541 
Jamali-Raeufy, Nida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2416-0335 
Authors Full Name
Nozari, Masoumeh, Nahavandi, Arezo, Zeinivand, Motahareh, Eslami Gharaati,
Maryam, Godarzi, Mina, Ahmadi, Mohammad, Jamali-Raeufy, Nida
Institution
Nozari, Masoumeh. Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology,
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.   Nahavandi, Arezo.
Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Iran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Nahavandi, Arezo. Neuroscience Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Nahavandi, Arezo. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Zeinivand, Motahareh. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Eslami Gharaati, Maryam. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Godarzi, Mina. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Ahmadi, Mohammad. Neuroscience Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Jamali-Raeufy, Nida. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
22.
  
Advancing family dementia caregiver interventions in low- and middle-income
countries: A pilot cluster randomized controlled trial of Resources for Advancing
Alzheimer's Caregiver Health in Vietnam (REACH VN).
Hinton L, Nguyen H, Nguyen HT, Harvey DJ, Nichols L, Martindale-Adams J, Nguyen
BT, Nguyen BTT, Nguyen AN, Nguyen CH, Nguyen TTH, Nguyen TL, Nguyen ATP,
Nguyen NB, Tiet QQ, Nguyen TA, Nguyen PQ, Nguyen TA, Pham T
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions.
6(1):e12063, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33532542
INTRODUCTION: Low- and middle-income countries have rapidly increasing
numbers of people with dementia, yet little evidence on family caregiving
interventions. We tested the preliminary efficacy and feasibility of a family caregivingintervention in northern Vietnam.
METHODS: Nine clusters comprising 60 family caregivers were randomized to a
culturally adapted version of a four- to six-session, multicomponent intervention
delivered in-home over 2 to 3 months, or enhanced control. Eligible caregivers were
>=18 years of age and scored >=6 on the Zarit Burden Inventory (ZBI).
RESULTS: Fifty-one caregivers (85%) completed the study. Using analysis of
covariance with 3-month assessment as the outcome and baseline assessment as a
covariate, intervention group caregivers had an average ZBI (primary outcome) score
1.2 standard deviation (SD) lower (P = .02) and Patient Health Questionnaire-4
(psychological distress) score 0.7 SD lower (P = .03) than controls.
DISCUSSION: In the first study of its kind in Vietnam, a culturally adapted,
manualized, family caregiver intervention was both efficacious and feasible.
Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research &
Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of Alzheimer's
Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Hinton, Ladson, Nguyen, Huong, Nguyen, Hung Trong, Harvey, Danielle J, Nichols,
Linda, Martindale-Adams, Jennifer, Nguyen, Binh Thanh, Nguyen, Binh Thi Thanh,
Nguyen, Anh Ngoc, Nguyen, Chinh Hong, Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai, Nguyen, Thuy Le,
Nguyen, Anh Thi Phuong, Nguyen, Ngoc Bich, Tiet, Quyen Q, Nguyen, Tuan Anh,
Nguyen, Phong Quy, Nguyen, Trung Anh, Pham, Thang
Institution
Hinton, Ladson. Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences University of
California Davis California USA.   Nguyen, Huong. Department of Religious Studies
University of South Carolina Columbia South Carolina USA.
Nguyen, Hung Trong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Hung Trong. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Harvey, Danielle J. Department of Public Health Sciences University of California
Davis California USA.
Nichols, Linda. Caregiver Center Veterans Affairs Medical Center Memphis
Tennessee USA.
Nichols, Linda. Department of Preventive Medicine University of Tennessee Health
Sciences Center Memphis Tennessee USA.
Martindale-Adams, Jennifer. Caregiver Center Veterans Affairs Medical Center
Memphis Tennessee USA.
Martindale-Adams, Jennifer. Department of Preventive Medicine University of
Tennessee Health Sciences Center Memphis Tennessee USA.
Nguyen, Binh Thanh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Binh Thi Thanh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Anh Ngoc. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Chinh Hong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thuy Le. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Anh Thi Phuong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Ngoc Bich. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Tiet, Quyen Q. California School of Professional Psychology at Alliant International
University San Francisco California USA.
Nguyen, Tuan Anh. University of South Australia Adelaide Australia.
Nguyen, Phong Quy. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Trung Anh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Trung Anh. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
23.
  
Effect of Watermelon Extract on Nerve Conduction Velocity, Memory, and T4 Level in
Rats.
Jafari Nejad Bajestani M, Yousefi M, Hadjzadeh MA, Hosseini M, Taghipour A,
Yousefvand S
Advanced Biomedical Research. 9:53, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33457336
BACKGROUND: Watermelon is a fruit with the thirst-quenching effect and especially
is consumed in summer. In this study, the effect of consumption of watermelon
extract (in drinking water) on thyroid hormone level (TT4), animals' weight, water and
food consumption, nerve conduction velocity (NCV), and memory in Wistar rats were
investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four male Wistar rats were divided into three
groups: control, CT 1500 mg/kg, and CT 3000 mg/kg (n = 8, in each group).
Watermelon extract was administered for 42 days. The results measured in this study
were analyzed with repeated measures or one-way analysis of variance and
compared by the least significant difference post hoc. P < 0.05 was considered as
significant difference.
RESULTS: The results showed that animals' weight in both the treatment groups
decreased compared to the control group (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively).
Water and food consumption and the level of TT4 increased when compared to the
control group in both the treated groups (both P < 0.001). NCV in both the treated
groups decreased in comparison with the control group (both P < 0.001). Spatial
memory did not change significantly, but passive avoidance memory in both the
treated groups significantly decreased in comparison to the control group
(respectively, with P < 0.05 and P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Based on these finding, in spite of increase in food and water
consumption in the treated groups, animal weight did not increase significantly.
Impairment in memory and decrease in NCV were also occurred, but TT4 level was
increased in animals treated with watermelon extract.
Copyright: © 2020 Advanced Biomedical Research.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jafari Nejad Bajestani, Majid, Yousefi, Mahdi, Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza, Hosseini,
Mahmoud, Taghipour, Ali, Yousefvand, Shiba
Institution
Jafari Nejad Bajestani, Majid. Department of Persian Medicine, School of Persian
and Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad,
Iran.   Yousefi, Mahdi. Department of Persian Medicine, School of Persian and
Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Division of Neurocognitive Sciences, Psychiatry and
Behavioural Sciences Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Division of Neurocognitive Sciences, Psychiatry and
Behavioural Sciences Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad University
of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Taghipour, Ali. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Cancer Research
Center, Social Determinants of Health Research Center, School of Health, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Yousefvand, Shiba. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
24.
  
High milk consumption is associated with carotid atherosclerosis in middle and old-
aged Chinese.
He M, Guo Z, Lu Z, Wei S, Wang Z
International Journal of Cardiology Hypertension. 5:100031, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33447760
BACKGROUND: Carotid atherosclerosis (CA) can reflect atherosclerotic status of
systemic vessels, and is associated with ischemic stroke and cognitive impairment.
Milk consumption is growing in China, and data are limited on the association
between milk and CA risk.
METHODS: Participants aged >=40 years in China National Stroke Prevention
Project were recruited for carotid ultrasound examination, and those with carotid
endarterectomy, carotid stenting stroke or coronary heart disease were excluded.
Participants were defined as having CA when intima-media thickness (IMT) >=1 mm
or plaques were detected by ultrasonography. For milk consumption, though contents
were not analyzed, people were divided into high consumption (>=200 ml/day and
>=5 day/week) and low consumption (occasional or never) groups. Multivariate
logistics regression analyses were done in both full and propensity score-matched
population to identify the association between milk consumption and CA.
RESULTS: 84880 participants were included in the final analysis. After being
adjusted by age, gender, living location, smoking habits, drinking habits, physical
activity, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, high milk consumption is
associated with CA in both full population (odds ratio [OR] = 1.26, 95% confidence
interval [CI] 1.19-1.33) and propensity score-matched population (OR = 1.25, 95%CI
1.17-1.34). High milk consumption is also a risk factor for IMT thickening (OR = 1.15,95%CI 1.08-1.23), carotid plaque formation (OR = 1.17, 95%CI 1.09-1.25) and
carotid stenosis over 50% (OR = 1.52, 95%CI 1.10-2.14) in the propensity score-
matched population.
CONCLUSIONS: High milk consumption is related to CA in middle and old-aged
Chinese population. More cautious advice on milk intake should be given in this
population for prevention of atherosclerosis.
Copyright © 2020 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
He, Miao, Guo, Zaogeng, Lu, Zuxun, Wei, Sheng, Wang, Zhihong
Institution
He, Miao. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health,Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.   Guo, Zaogeng. Health Science Center, Shenzhen Second People's
Hospital, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
Lu, Zuxun. Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public
Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.
Wei, Sheng. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health,Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.
Wang, Zhihong. Health Science Center, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, The
First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
Wang, Zhihong. Guangdong Innovation Platform of Translational Research for
Cerebrovascular Diseases, Shenzhen, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
25.
  
Cognitive Disorders in Patients with Multiple Sclerosis.
Sehanovic A, Smajlovic D, Tupkovic E, Ibrahimagic OC, Kunic S, Dostovic Z, Zoletic
E, Pasic Z
Materia Sociomedica. 32(3):191-195, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33424448
INTRODUCTION: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, (auto) immune
disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Cognitive disorders are found in over
50% of patients.
AIM: The aim of the study was to determine the distribution of cognitive disorders in
people with MS.
METHODS: The prospective study included 135 respondents with MS and 50 healthy
respondents. The respondents were divided into three groups: the first group
consisted of 85 respondents where the disease lasted longer than one year, the
second group consisted of 50 respondents with newly diagnosed MS, the third groupconsisted of 50 healthy respondents. Clinical assessment instruments were:
Extended Disability Score in Multiple Sclerosis Patients, Mini Mental Status, Battery
of Tests to Assess Cognitive Functions: Wechsler Intelligence Scale, Revised Beta
Test, Raven Colored Progressive Matrices, Wechsler Memory Scale, Rey Audio
Verbal Learning Test -Osterriecht's complex character test, verbal fluency test.
RESULTS: Cognitive disorders were present in 40-60% of respondents with MS.
Visuospatial, visuoconstructive and visuoperceptive functions are worse in the first
group. Mnestic functions (learning process, short-term and long-term memory,
recollection, verbal-logical memory) were most affected in both groups of
respondents, ranging from 30-60%. Poorer cognitive domains are in the first groups
of respondents. Immediate working process memory (current learning), memory,
attention, short-term and logical memory is worse in the examinees of the first group.
At the beginning of the disease, 16% had verbal fluency difficulties, and as the
disease progresses, the difficulties become more pronounced.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive disorders are heterogeneous, they can be noticed in the
early stages of the disease. They refer to impairments of working memory, executive
functions and attention, while global intellectual efficiency is later reduced.
Copyright © 2020 Aida Sehanovic, Dzevdet Smajlovic, Emir Tupkovic, Omer C.
Ibrahimagic, Suljo Kunic, Zikrija Dostovic, Emina Zoletic, Zejneba Pasic.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Sehanovic, Aida, Smajlovic, Dzevdet, Tupkovic, Emir, Ibrahimagic, Omer C, Kunic,
Suljo, Dostovic, Zikrija, Zoletic, Emina, Pasic, Zejneba
Institution
Sehanovic, Aida. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.   Sehanovic, Aida. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Smajlovic, Dzevdet. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Smajlovic, Dzevdet. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Tupkovic, Emir. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Tupkovic, Emir. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Ibrahimagic, Omer C. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Ibrahimagic, Omer C. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Kunic, Suljo. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Kunic, Suljo. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Dostovic, Zikrija. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
Dostovic, Zikrija. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Zoletic, Emina. Clinic of Neurology, Medical Center of University in Sarajevo,
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Pasic, Zejneba. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
Pasic, Zejneba. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Year of Publication
2020 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
26.
  
Outcomes and interventions in the elderly with and without cognitive impairment: a
longitudinal study.
da Silva ACS, Ansai JH, Cezar NOC, Carvalho Vale FA, Dos Santos JG, de Andrade
LP
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):394-402, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354293
BACKGROUND: Clinical follow-up studies are necessary for a better understanding
of the evolution of cognitive impairment as well as the development of better
assessment and intervention tools.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether older people with preserved cognition (PC), mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) show differences in
clinical outcomes and interventions after a 32-month period.
METHODS: One hundred twenty-four community-dwelling older people were
included and classified in one of three groups (PC, MCI and mild AD). Information on
clinical outcomes (deaths, new diagnoses, falls, need for assistance or changes in
routine and hospitalizations) and interventions (increased use of medication,
physiotherapeutic intervention, practice of physical exercise, etc.) in the 32-month
period were collected by telephone or during a home visit on a single day.
RESULTS: Ninety-five participants (35 with PC, 33 with MCI and 27 with AD) were
reevaluated after 32 months. The need for assistance/changes in routine was
significantly higher in the AD group, especially with regard to basic activities of daily
living. Unlike the other groups, the PC group did not show "other diagnoses" (urinary
incontinence, prolapse, change in vision or autoimmune disease). No significant
differences were found regarding other variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Older people with and without cognitive impairment exhibited
differences in some clinical outcomes after 32 months, such as need for assistance
or changes in their routine and new diagnoses of specific diseases. Therefore, the
multidimensionality of geriatric patients should be considered when planning
assessments and interventions.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7299-2083
Ansai, Juliana Hotta; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9873-3509 
Cezar, Natalia Oiring de Castro; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8264-3565 
Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8826-2010 
Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5627-4655 
de Andrade, Larissa Pires; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8860-5818 
Authors Full Name
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares, Ansai, Juliana Hotta, Cezar, Natalia Oiring de
Castro, Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis, Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes, de Andrade,
Larissa PiresInstitution
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.   Ansai, Juliana Hotta. Gerontology Department,
Universidade Federal de Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Cezar, Natalia Oiring de Castro. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis. Medicine Department, Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
de Andrade, Larissa Pires. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
INTRODUCAO: Estudos com acompanhamento clinico sao necessarios para um
melhor entendimento da evolucao do quadro cognitivo e desenvolvimento de
melhores estrategias de avaliacao e intervencao.OBJETIVO: Investigar se idosos
com cognicao preservada (CP), comprometimento cognitivo leve (CCL) e doenca de
Alzheimer (DA) leve apresentam diferencas nos desfechos clinicos e intervencoes
realizadas ao longo de 32 meses.METODOS: A amostra foi constituida de 124
idosos residentes na comunidade foram incluidos e classificados em um dos tres
grupos (CP, CCL, DA leve). Informacoes sobre desfechos clinicos (obitos, novos
diagnosticos, quedas, necessidade de assistencia ou mudancas de rotina e
hospitalizacoes) e intervencoes realizadas (aumento do uso de medicamentos,
intervencao fisioterapeutica, pratica de exercicios fisicos e outras) foram coletadas,
no periodo de 32 meses, por telefone ou durante visita domiciliar em um unico
dia.RESULTADOS: Apos 32 meses, 95 idosos (35 CP, 33 CCL e 27 DA) foram
reavaliados. A necessidade de assistencia/mudancas de rotina foi significativamente
maior no Grupo DA, principalmente para as atividades basicas de vida diaria.
Diferentemente dos outros grupos, o Grupo CP nao apresentou "outros
diagnosticos" (incontinencia urinaria, prolapso, alteracoes visuais e doenca
autoimune). Nenhuma outra diferenca significativa foi encontrada quanto as outras
variaveis.CONCLUSAO: Os idosos com e sem comprometimento cognitivo
apresentaram diferencas em alguns desfechos clinicos apos 32 meses, como
necessidade de assistencia/mudancas de rotina e novos diagnosticos de doencas
especificas. Assim, a multidimensionalidade do idoso deve ser considerada ao
planejar avaliacoes e intervencoes.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
27.
  
Normative data for middle-aged Brazilians in the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale.
Carvalho GA, Caramelli P
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):350-357, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354287Despite the advances in the diagnosis of dementia, neuropsychological assessment
remains an important tool. The Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS) was designed to
evaluate people with suspected dementia and allows for the analysis of different
cognitive domains. Considering the numerous cases of early-onset dementia,
specific reference standards aimed at the middle-aged population are necessary.
OBJECTIVE: To provide normative data for the middle-aged Brazilian population in
DRS and to investigate the influence of education level, age, sex, and intelligence
quotient (IQ) on the results.
METHODS: Overall, 120 healthcare professionals and caregivers from a hospital,
who were healthy, aged between 45 and 64 years, and had at least four years of
formal education, were included in the study. They were equally divided into six
groups. In each age group (45-54 and 55-64 years), there were three educational
levels: 4-7, 8-11, and 12 or more (12+) years of formal education. The results are
presented as mean values, standard deviations, and percentiles. Comparisons
between groups were carried out for age, sex, and education level. Age, years of
formal education, and IQ were also analyzed as continuous variables by Spearman's
correlation.
RESULTS: Concerning education level, the comparison between groups showed
differences in the results for the total scale and subscales, except for the
Construction subscale. No differences were found for age and sex. Correlations
observed for years of formal education and IQ were similar. No correlation was found
for age.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study contributes to the evaluation of dementia
concerning people younger than 65 years of age and reinforces the importance of
education in the interpretation of the scores.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2210-1016
Caramelli, Paulo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4786-6990 
Authors Full Name
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida, Caramelli, Paulo
Institution
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida. Rede Sarah de Hospitais de Reabilitacao - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.   Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida. Programa de Pos-Graduacao
em Ciencias Aplicadas a Saude do Adulto, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Caramelli, Paulo. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias Aplicadas a Saude do
Adulto, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Caramelli, Paulo. Grupo de Pesquisa em Neurologia Cognitiva e do Comportamento,
Departamento de Clinica Medica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Apesar dos avancos no diagnostico de demencia, a avaliacao neuropsicologica
continua sendo uma importante ferramenta. A Escala de Avaliacao de Demencia de
Mattis (Mattis Dementia Rating Scale - DRS) foi projetada para avaliar pessoas com
suspeita de demencia e permite a analise de diferentes dominios cognitivos. Dados
os numerosos casos de demencia com inicio precoce, sao necessarias normas
especificas para a populacao de meia-idade.OBJETIVO: Fornecer dados normativos
para a populacao brasileira de meia-idade na escala Mattis e investigar a influencia
da escolaridade, idade, sexo e quociente de inteligencia (QI) nos
resultados.METODOS: 120 funcionarios e cuidadores saudaveis de um hospital,
com idade entre 45 e 64 anos e com pelo menos quatro anos de escolaridade foram
incluidos no estudo, os quais foram divididos igualmente em seis grupos. Havia tresniveis educacionais para cada faixa etaria (45-54 e 55-64 anos): 4 a 7 anos de
estudo (4-7), 8 a 11 (8-11) e 12 anos ou mais (12+). Os resultados sao apresentados
como valores medios, desvios padrao e percentis. Foram realizadas comparacoes
entre os grupos de acordo com idade, sexo e escolaridade. Idade, anos de estudo e
QI foram tambem analisados como variaveis continuas atraves da correlacao de
Spearman.RESULTADOS: Para a educacao, a comparacao entre os grupos
mostrou diferencas nos resultados da escala total e subescalas, exceto na
subescala Construcao. Nao foram identificadas diferencas para idade e sexo. As
correlacoes observadas para anos de estudo e QI foram semelhantes. Nenhuma
correlacao foi encontrada para idade.CONCLUSAO: O presente estudo contribui
para a avaliacao da demencia em individuos com menos de 65 anos e reforca a
importancia de considerar o nivel educacional na interpretacao dos escores.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
28.
  
Environmental factors between normal and superagers in an Argentine cohort.
Calandri IL, Crivelli L, Martin ME, Egido N, Guimet NM, Allegri RF
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):345-349, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354286
Normal aging usually brings age-related cognitive decline. However, there is a group
of aged individuals who have exceptional memory performance: the superagers.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to identify the environmental factors that could influence
exceptional memory performance in a cohort of Argentine individuals.
METHODS: Forty healthy volunteers >80 years of age were classified into two
groups, superagers (SA, n=20) and normal agers (NA, n=20), according to the
Northwestern SuperAging Program criteria. Participants were neuropsychologically
tested and evaluated on environmental aspects: working status, education,
bilingualism, cognitive reserve, physical activity, social networking, clinical
comorbidities, and longevity of parents and siblings.
RESULTS: Both groups were highly educated (NA=16.3+/-3 years; SA 15.85+/-2.6;
p=0.6), 11.8% of the sample was still working without differences between groups.
There were no differences in cognitive reserve inventory (p=0.7), physical activity
engagement (p=0.423), or social network index (p=0.73). As for longevity, 44% of the
siblings lived longer than 80 years of age (p=0.432) and maternal longevity was
linked to SA (NA=46.7%; SA=80%; p=0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: This study is a pilot approximation to the superaging population in
Argentina. Our results suggest that environmental factors related to successful aging
do not differentiate superaging. SA may depend on variables yet to be identified,
probably of a genetic/metabolic order.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameIDCalandri, Ismael Luis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6983-1430   Crivelli,
Lucia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0083-9389 
Martin, Maria Eugenia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5757-5938 
Egido, Noelia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7420-2324 
Guimet, Nahuel Magrath; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7420-8547 
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7166-1234 
Authors Full Name
Calandri, Ismael Luis, Crivelli, Lucia, Martin, Maria Eugenia, Egido, Noelia, Guimet,
Nahuel Magrath, Allegri, Ricardo Francisco
Institution
Calandri, Ismael Luis. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.   Crivelli, Lucia. Departamento de Neurologia,
FLENI Ringgold Standard Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Martin, Maria Eugenia. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Egido, Noelia. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard Institution -
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Guimet, Nahuel Magrath. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco. Universidad de la Costa - Barranquilla, Atlantico,
Colombia.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O envelhecimento normal geralmente traz declinio cognitivo relacionado a idade. No
entanto, existe um grupo de idosos com desempenho excepcional de memoria: os
superidosos.OBJETIVO: Nosso objetivo foi identificar os fatores ambientais que
podem influenciar o desempenho excepcional da memoria em uma coorte de
individuos argentinos.METODOS: Quarenta voluntarios saudaveis com idade >80
anos foram classificados em dois grupos: superidosos (SI, n=20) e idosos normais
(IN, n=20), de acordo com os criterios do Programa de Superidosos da Universidade
Northwestern. Os participantes foram testados neuropsicologicamente e avaliados
nos aspectos ambientais: situacao de trabalho, escolaridade, bilinguismo, reserva
cognitiva, atividade fisica e rede social, comorbidades clinicas e longevidade de pais
e irmaos.RESULTADOS: Ambos os grupos tinham alto nivel de escolaridade
(IN=16,3+/-3 anos; SI=15,85+/-2,6; p=0,6), 11,8% da amostra ainda trabalhava sem
diferenca entre os grupos. Nao houve diferencas no inventario de reserva cognitiva
(p=0,7), pratica de atividade fisica (p=0,423) ou indice de rede social (p=0,73).
Quanto a longevidade, 44% dos irmaos viviam mais de 80 anos (p=0,432) e a
longevidade materna estava associada a SI (IN=46,7%; SI=80%;
p=0,045).CONCLUSOES: Este estudo e uma aproximacao piloto ao super
envelhecimento da populacao na Argentina. Nossos resultados sugerem que os
fatores ambientais relacionados ao envelhecimento bem-sucedido nao diferenciam
os superidosos. Ser superidoso pode depender de variaveis ainda nao identificadas,
provavelmente de ordem genetica/metabolica.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
29.
  
The comorbidity conditions and polypharmacy in elderly patients with mental illness
in a middle income country: a cross-sectional study.
de Lima JD, Teixeira IA, Silva FO, Deslandes AC
IBRO Reports. 9:96-101, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33336105
BACKGROUND: Mental disorders increase the risk factor for developing physical
comorbidity conditions, such as cardiometabolic diseases. There is a high prevalence
of multimorbidity and polypharmacy in the elderly population which hampers clinical
response. Studies have shown that this positive correlation between the aging
process and enhancement of physical comorbidities is especially high among older
adults who live in low or middle income countries.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between physical disease comorbidities
and polypharmacy in older adults with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease
(AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or major depressive disorder (MDD), living in a
middle income country.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study of community-dwelling elderly individuals who are
cognitively healthy and those with AD, MCI, or MDD. The severity scale of the
Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) was calculated to classify the severity of
comorbidity condition. Logistic regression model (unadjusted and adjusted for age)
were used to calculate odds ratios (OR) and 95 % confidence intervals (CI) for
cardiometabolic comorbidity (hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia and overweight),
and polypharmacy.
RESULTS: Although there was not an increased risk of hypertension, diabetes, and
obesity among the groups, elderly people with mental disorders presented higher
odds for polypharmacy condition. Polypharmacy was significantly higher for all
groups in comparison with cognitively healthy participants: AD (OR 22.00, 95 % CI
6.11-79.11), MDD (OR 14.73, 95 % CI 3.69-58.75) and MCI (OR 10.31, 95 % CI
2.44-43.59). Elderly patients with AD presented more severe comorbidities and
higher risks for dyslipidemia.
CONCLUSION: Elderly patients with depression, dementia and mild cognitive
impairment have considerably higher odds for polypharmacy. People with dementia
also have greater comorbidity severity than those who are cognitively healthy. In
middle income countries, there is an urgent need to focus on promoting age-
appropriate health approaches for the elderly with mental illness to prevent the
development of aggravated cardiometabolic conditions and polypharmacy.
Copyright © 2020 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
de Lima, Juliana Dias, Teixeira, Ivan Abdalla, Silva, Felipe de Oliveira, Deslandes,
Andrea Camaz
Institution
de Lima, Juliana Dias. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.   Teixeira, Ivan Abdalla. Institute of Psychiatry,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Silva, Felipe de Oliveira. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Deslandes, Andrea Camaz. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
30.
  
Resting State Brain Network Function in Elderly: The Formation of Social Ties.
Oh S, Kim A, Kang E, Choi S
International Journal of Psychological Research. 13(2):59-67, 2020 Jul-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33329878
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to determine the relevance of the
relationship between brain network and the social ties management.
METHODS: Participants are based on 52 Korean seniors aged 65 and older who live
in Ganghwa-gun, Incheon. We used a closed-triad index (CTI), which is the most
basic unit of analysis in the study of group phenomena. This index is a social
networking variable that has been shown to have a different implication depending on
the subject's condition and role. After two questionnaire surveys were conducted at
three years intervals, participants were classified into an increased group and a
decreased group according to the change of CTI. Resting-state fMRI analysis were
followed to investigate the difference of brain networks between groups.
RESULTS: According to the analysis of the study, the whole participants who had
increased in number of CTI has higher local efficiency than the group of the
participants who had no effect or decreased in CTI.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that social relationship, which is substantially
related to brain network, is a major factor in successful aging. Lastly, since there is a
restriction that the study cannot explain the causal aspect of the brain network and
the triad-relationship, there is a need for further investigation.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Oh, Seolah, Kim, Aran, Kang, Eunji, Choi, Sungwon
Other Abstract
Publisher
ANTECEDENTES: El proposito de este estudio fue determinar la relevancia de la
relacion entre la red cerebral y el manejo de los lazos sociales.METODO: los
participantes son 52 adultos mayores coreanos de 65 anos o mas que viven en
Ganghwa-gun, Incheon. Utilizamos un indice de triada cerrada (CTI), que es la
unidad de analisis mas basica en el estudio de los fenomenos grupales. Este indice
es una variable de red social que ha demostrado tener una implicacion diferente
dependiendo de la condicion y el rol del sujeto. Despues de realizar dos encuestas
por cuestionario a intervalos de tres anos, los participantes se clasificaron en un
grupo aumentado y un grupo disminuido de acuerdo con el cambio de CTI. Se siguio
el analisis de fMRI en estado de reposo para investigar la diferencia de las redes
cerebrales entre los grupos.RESULTADOS: Segun el analisis del estudio, todos los
participantes que habian aumentado en numero de CTI tienen una mayor eficiencia
local que el grupo de participantes que no tuvieron ningun efecto o disminuyeron en
CTI.CONCLUSIONES: Nuestro estudio sugiere que la relacion social que estasustancialmente relacionada con la red cerebral es un factor importante en el
envejecimiento exitoso. Por ultimo, dado que existe una restriccion de que el estudio
no puede explicar el aspecto causal de la red cerebral y la relacion triada, existe la
necesidad de una mayor investigacion.
Language: Spanish
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
31.
  
Evaluation of a Novel Technology-Based Program Designed to Assess and Train
Everyday Skills in Older Adults.
Czaja SJ, Kallestrup P, Harvey PD
Innovation in Aging. 4(6):igaa052, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33324761
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Performance of everyday activities is often
challenging for older adults. We evaluated a novel computer-based functional skills
assessment and training (CFSAT) program, which includes simulations of everyday
tasks (e.g., money and medication management).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The sample included noncognitively
impaired (NC) older adults (n = 51) and cognitively impaired (CI) older adults (n =
43), who ranged in age from 60 to 86 years (M = 73.12; SD = 6.06), were primarily
female (90%), and ethnically diverse (23% Hispanic, 51% African American).
Participants (stratified by cognitive status) were randomized to 1 of the 2 conditions
training alone (CFSAT) or CFSAT with computerized cognitive training and trained up
to 24 training sessions. Task performance, using measures of completion time and
efficiency (accuracy/completion time), was evaluated at baseline, the final training
session, and immediately posttraining with an alternate form of the CFSAT
assessment.
RESULTS: Both NC and CI participants demonstrated significant performance
improvements across all tasks following training (all ps < .001). The CI participants
demonstrated reduced training gains compared to the NC participants (all ps < .001).
Training gains did not vary as a function of training conditions.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: The findings suggest that CFSAT is an
efficacious program for assessing and training everyday task performance. CFSAT
can ultimately be used as an intervention strategy to enhance functional
independence for aging adults with and without cognitive impairments.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
The Gerontological Society of America.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Czaja, Sara J, Kallestrup, Peter, Harvey, Philip D
Institution
Czaja, Sara J. Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Center on Aging andBehavioral Research, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York.   Kallestrup,
Peter. i-Function Inc., Miami, Florida.
Harvey, Philip D. Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, University of
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Florida.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
32.
  
Montreal Cognitive Assessment as Screening Measure for Mild and Major
Neurocognitive Disorder in a Chilean Population.
Bello-Lepe S, Alonso-Sanchez MF, Ortega A, Gaete M, Veliz M, Lira J, Perez Salas
CP
Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders Extra. 10(3):105-114, 2020 Sep-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33250917
BACKGROUND: The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) is a sensitive
screening instrument for mild neurocognitive disorder (mild NCD). However, cut-off
scores and accuracy indices should be established using representative samples of
the population. In this context, the aim of this study was to update the normative
values, and diagnostic efficiency statistics of the MoCA to detect mild NCD in the
Chilean population.
METHODS: This study included 226 participants from the north, center, and south of
the country, classified into 3 groups: healthy elderly (HE; n = 113), mild NCD (n =
65), and major neurocognitive disorder (major NCD; n = 48).
RESULTS: The optimal cut-off score to discriminate mild NCD from HE participants
was 20 points with a sensitivity of 82.8% and a specificity of 84.1%. The observed
balance between sensitivity and specificity shows a good test performance either to
confirm or discard a diagnosis. The cut-off between mild NCD and major NCD from
HE participants was 19 points with 85.6% of sensitivity and 90.3% of specificity.
CONCLUSION: Overall diagnostic accuracy can be considered as outstanding (AUC
>=0.904) when discriminating HE from both mild NCD and major NCD. These results
showed that the MoCA is a suitable tool to identify mild NCD and major NCD.
Copyright © 2020 by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Bello-Lepe, Sebastian, Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca, Ortega, Alonso, Gaete,
Marcelo, Veliz, Marcela, Lira, Juan, Perez Salas, Claudia Paz
Institution
Bello-Lepe, Sebastian. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de Fonoaudiologia,
Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.   Bello-Lepe, Sebastian. Psychology
and Language Sciences Division, University College London, London, United
Kingdom.
Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de
Fonoaudiologia, Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Psychology and Language Sciences Division,
University College London, London, United Kingdom.
Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Centro de Investigacion del Desarrollo en
Cognicion y Lenguaje, CIDCL-UV, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valparaiso,
Vina del Mar, Chile.
Ortega, Alonso. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de Fonoaudiologia, Universidad de
Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.
Ortega, Alonso. Psychology and Language Sciences Division, University College
London, London, United Kingdom.
Ortega, Alonso. Centro de Investigacion del Desarrollo en Cognicion y Lenguaje,
CIDCL-UV, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.
Gaete, Marcelo. Escuela de Psicologia, Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile.
Veliz, Marcela. Escuela de Psicologia, Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile.
Lira, Juan. Departamento de Psicologia, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Universidad
de Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.
Perez Salas, Claudia Paz. Departamento de Psicologia, Facultad de Ciencias
Sociales, Universidad de Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
33.
  
The protective effect of PK11195 on D-galactose-induced amnestic mild cognitive
impairment in rats.
Ye C, Lin L, Zhang P, Chen Y, Huang J, Lin X
Annals of Translational Medicine. 8(18):1190, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33241039
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the preventive effect of translocator
protein 18kDa (TSPO) ligand PK11195 on amnestic mild cognitive impairment
(aMCI), as well as its influence on astrocytes, in order to identify effective ways to
prevent aMCI.
METHODS: Male SD rats were randomly divided into control group (n=10), aMCI
group (n=10), PK11195 group (n=10), PK11195 + D-gal group (n=10). The
preventive effect of PK11195 on aMCI in rats was evaluated. The cognitive function
of rats in four different treatment groups was determined using the Morris water maze
(MWM), as well as whole-brain pathology and immunofluorescence of rat brain
tissue.
RESULTS: The results of the MWM behavioral test showed that rats pre-treated with
PK11195 had improved escape latency and a higher number of platform crossings
compared with the aMCI model rats. PK11195 was also shown to prevent the D-
galactose (D-gal)-induced senescence of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA1
region and to inhibit the apoptosis of astrocytes. At the same time, compared with the
aMCI model rats, the TSPO in the brain tissue of rats pretreated with PK11195 had a
lower distribution density.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results prove that PK11195 can effectively prevent D-gal-
induced decline of learning and memory function as well as inhibit abnormal changes
of related cells.Copyright 2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Ye, Chen, Lin, Lanying, Zhang, Peiling, Chen, Yi, Huang, Jinghao, Lin, Xianzhong
Institution
Ye, Chen. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.   Ye, Chen. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Lanying. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Lanying. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Zhang, Peiling. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Zhang, Peiling. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Chen, Yi. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Chen, Yi. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Huang, Jinghao. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Huang, Jinghao. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou,
China.
Lin, Xianzhong. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Xianzhong. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
34.
  
The association of smart mobile phone usage with cognitive function impairment in
Saudi adult population.
Al-Khlaiwi TM, Habib SS, Meo SA, Alqhtani MS, Ogailan AA
Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences. 36(7):1628-1633, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33235587
BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Excessive use of mobile phones has raised a great
concern about adverse health effects on human health. The present study's aim was
to investigate the association of the usage of smartphones with cognitive function
impairment in the Saudi adult population.
METHODS: The present cross-sectional study was conducted in the Department of
Physiology, College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia during
September 2019 to January 2020. A total of 251 Saudi adults who were using mobile
phones were recruited, and knowledge, attitude and practices were assessed by
interview using a predesigned proforma. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment(MOCA) tool was employed to assess the cognitive functions, comparison was made
between daily mobile phone usage group and their correlated Montreal Cognitive
Score (MOCA).
RESULTS: The mean age for 251 Saudi adult participants was 32.43 +/- 12.8 years.
More than 80% of the participants used their mobile phone for more than two hours
daily. About 61% of the participants were not aware of the side effect of the radiation
generated from mobile phone. The participants showed a decrease in MOCA score
with increased daily mobile phone usage (MOCA=26.8 for <1 hour daily usage, 26.1
for 1-2 hours, and 24.6 for >2 hours with P< 0.05). In addition, participants showed
decreased MOCA score by keeping their mobile phone near their pillow while
sleeping; MOCA=24.35 for near pillow groups and >25.5 for the groups that placed
their mobile phone away from the pillow.
CONCLUSIONS: Excessive use of mobile phones can cause cognitive function
impairment. Strict policies must be implemented to control the use of smartphones in
order to minimize the effects on mobile phone radiation on cognition. The media has
to be on the forefront in educating the public about the proper usage of mobile
phones.
Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Al-Khlaiwi, Thamir M, Habib, Syed Shahid, Meo, Sultan Ayoub, Alqhtani, Mohammed
S, Ogailan, Abeer A
Institution
Al-Khlaiwi, Thamir M. Thamir M. Al-Khlaiwi Department of Physiology, College of
Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.   Habib, Syed Shahid. Syed
Shahid Habib Department of Physiology, College of Medicine, King Saud University,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Meo, Sultan Ayoub. Sultan Ayoub Meo Department of Physiology, College of
Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Alqhtani, Mohammed S. Mohammed S Alqhtani Medical Student, College of
Medicine, King Saud University.
Ogailan, Abeer A. Abeer A. Ogailan Independent Researcher.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
35.
  
Effect of Pentoxifylline on Apoptotic-Related Gene Expression Profile, Learning and
Memory Impairment Induced by Systemic Lipopolysaccharide Administration in the
Rat Hippocampus.
Akbari Z, Reisi P, Torkaman-Boutorabi A, Farahmandfar M
International Journal of Preventive Medicine. 11:151, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33209221
BACKGROUND: Inflammation is one of the effective factors, in the development offunctional disorders of the nervous system. Pentoxifylline (PTX) has an inhibitory
effect on inflammatory factors. Therefore the aim of this study was to evaluate the
effect of PTX on learning, memory and expression of genes, involved in neuronal
survival in the rat hippocampus, following systemic lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
injection.
METHODS: Male rats were randomly divided into 5 groups of control, LPS and LPS
+ PTX, receiving doses of 10, 25 and 50 mg/kg of PTX, respectively. In LPS groups,
LPS was injected (5 mg/kg; intraperitoneal), and after one week, rats received
intraperitoneal PTX for 14 days, in the treatment groups. Learning and memory were
evaluated by object location task (OLT) and novel object recognition (NOR). Then,
the hippocampus was dissected in order to measure the expression of the associated
genes.
RESULTS: The results showed that peripheral LPS injection caused significant
damage (P < 0.01) to learning and memory with respect to controls, but PTX with
doses of 10 and 50 mg/kg prevented these impairments. Results from reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) showed that LPS significantly
increased the expression of Bax and TNF- alpha with respect to controls. PTX in the
LPS + PTX group significantly increased the expression of Bcl-2, BAD and Caspase-
3.
CONCLUSIONS: Other than the increased Bcl-2 expression, PTX had no significant
effect on the expression of other genes, therefore further studies are needed to find
out how PTX improves the learning and memory impairments, following the
peripheral inflammation.
Copyright: © 2020 International Journal of Preventive Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Akbari, Zahra, Reisi, Parham, Torkaman-Boutorabi, Anahita, Farahmandfar, Maryam
Institution
Akbari, Zahra. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School of
Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.   Akbari, Zahra. International Campuses, Tehran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Reisi, Parham. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Torkaman-Boutorabi, Anahita. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies,
School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Farahmandfar, Maryam. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School
of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.
Farahmandfar, Maryam. Electrophysiology Research Center, Neuroscience Institute,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 36.
  
Age- and Sex-Specific Prevalence and Modifiable Risk Factors of Mild Cognitive
Impairment Among Older Adults in China: A Population-Based Observational Study.
Fu J, Liu Q, Du Y, Zhu Y, Sun C, Lin H, Jin M, Ma F, Li W, Liu H, Zhang X, Chen Y,
Sun Z, Wang G, Huang G
Frontiers in aging neuroscience. 12:578742, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33192471
BACKGROUND: Minimal data are available on the prevalence of mild cognitive
impairment (MCI) in older Chinese adults. Moreover, the current information on MCI
shows important geographical variations.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to assess the prevalence and risk factors for MCI by age
and sex among older adults in a North Chinese population.
METHODS: In this population-based cross-sectional study, we enrolled a random
sample of 4,943 adults aged >= 60 years between March 2018 and June 2019 in
Tianjin, China. Of these, 312 individuals were excluded due to a lack of data (e.g.,
fasting blood test). As a result, 4,631 subjects were assessed. Individuals with MCI
were identified using neuropsychological assessments, including the Mini-Mental
State Examination and Activities of Daily Living scale, based on a modified version of
the Petersen's criteria.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) age of the 4,631 participants was 67.6 (4.89) years, and
2,579 (55.7%) were female. The overall age- and sex-standardized prevalence of
MCI in our study population was 10.7%. There were significant associations of MCI
with age [65-69 vs. 60-64 years, OR = 0.74; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.58,
0.96], physical activity (>=23.0 vs. <23.0 MET-hours/week, OR = 0.79; 95% CI: 0.64,
0.96), body mass index (BMI) (OR = 0.92; 95% CI: 0.89, 0.95), grip strength (OR =
0.50; 95% CI: 0.38, 0.67), hypertension (yes vs. no, OR = 1.44; 95% CI: 1.18, 1.77),
higher levels of sleepiness (OR = 1.80; 95% CI: 1.36, 2.37), and longer sleep
duration (OR = 1.40; 95% CI: 1.14, 1.72). The inverse association between BMI and
MCI was stronger in older age groups (P for heterogeneity = 0.003). Moreover, the
magnitude of association between triglycerides and MCI was different between the
sexes (P for heterogeneity = 0.029).
CONCLUSION: The age- and sex-standardized prevalence of MCI was 10.7% in the
study sample. Physical activity, BMI, grip strength, sleepiness, sleep duration, and
hypertension were associated with the prevalence of MCI. Additionally, triglycerides
and BMI might be differently associated with the presence of MCI for different sexes
and age stages, respectively.
Copyright © 2020 Fu, Liu, Du, Zhu, Sun, Lin, Jin, Ma, Li, Liu, Zhang, Chen, Sun,
Wang and Huang.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Fu, Jingzhu, Liu, Qian, Du, Yue, Zhu, Yun, Sun, Changqing, Lin, Hongyan, Jin,
Mengdi, Ma, Fei, Li, Wen, Liu, Huan, Zhang, Xumei, Chen, Yongjie, Sun, Zhuoyu,
Wang, Guangshun, Huang, Guowei
Institution
Fu, Jingzhu. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.   Fu, Jingzhu. Tianjin Key Laboratory of
Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Qian. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Qian. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Du, Yue. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.Du, Yue. Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public
Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Zhu, Yun. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Zhu, Yun. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Sun, Changqing. Neurosurgical Department of Baodi Clinical College of Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Lin, Hongyan. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Lin, Hongyan. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Jin, Mengdi. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Jin, Mengdi. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Ma, Fei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Ma, Fei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Li, Wen. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Li, Wen. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Liu, Huan. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Huan. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Zhang, Xumei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Zhang, Xumei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Chen, Yongjie. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Chen, Yongjie. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Sun, Zhuoyu. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Sun, Zhuoyu. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Wang, Guangshun. Department of Tumor, Baodi Clinical College of Tianjin Medical
University, Tianjin, China.
Huang, Guowei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Huang, Guowei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
  
37.
  
Montreal Cognitive Assessment - Single Cutoff Achieves Screening Purpose.
Yeung PY, Wong LLL, Chan CC, Yung CY, Leung LMJ, Tam YY, Tang LN, Li HS,
Lau ML
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:2681-2687, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33192067
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The study evaluated the performance between
norm-derived age and education adjusted vs single cutoff scores of the Montreal
Cognitive Assessment, Hong Kong version (HK-MoCA) in classifying cognitive
impairment in Chinese older adults.
METHODS: Total scores of HK-MoCA were collected from 315 subjects (128 with
dementia, 122 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 65 normal) attending a
public district hospital-based cognition clinic from 2012 to 2017. The HK-MoCA total
scores were evaluated using different cutoffs. Norm-derived age and education
adjusted cutoff scores were at 16th, 7th, and 2nd percentiles. Comparison was made
with the single cutoff scores validated in a local study with 21/22 for MCI and 18/19
for dementia.
RESULTS: Single cutoff score of HK-MoCA differentiated MCI from normal with
sensitivity of 0.861 and specificity of 0.723. To detect dementia, its sensitivity was
0.922, and specificity was 0.923. In identifying cognitive impairment, the sensitivity
and specificity were 0.932 and 0.723, respectively. However, age and education
adjusted cutoff scores achieved high specificities at all levels of cognitive impairment
with trade-off of sensitivities. The accuracy of correctly classifying tested subjects into
appropriate groups was 85.3% if single cutoff was used though the consistency
between norm-derived cutoffs and expert diagnoses were only 59.0%, 54.2%, and
53.9% at 16th, 7th, and 2nd percentiles, respectively. The consistency decreased
with older age and lower education level, and majority of misclassifications were false
negatives.
CONCLUSION: HK-MoCA is a convenient screening tool to detect cognitive
impairment. Administration time is relatively short, and it has incorporated essential
cognitive domains. Single cutoff scores with inherent simple education adjustment
achieved screening purpose of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in Chinese
older adults.
Copyright © 2020 Yeung et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Yeung, Pui Yu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1817-5223   Chan, Chun Chung;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8118-9460 
Yung, Cho Yiu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5401-7030 
Authors Full Name
Yeung, Pui Yu, Wong, L L Louise, Chan, Chun Chung, Yung, Cho Yiu, Leung, L M
Jess, Tam, Yuen Yee, Tang, Lap Nin, Li, Hiu Sze, Lau, Mei Ling
Institution
Yeung, Pui Yu. Department of Medicine, Tung Wah Eastern Hospital, Causeway
Bay, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.   Wong,
L L Louise. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Chan, Chun Chung. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Yung, Cho Yiu. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Leung, L M Jess. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong SpecialAdministrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Tam, Yuen Yee. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Tang, Lap Nin. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Li, Hiu Sze. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital, Kwun
Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Lau, Mei Ling. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
38.
  
Prevalence and Predictors of Neurocognitive Impairment in Ethiopian Population
Living with HIV.
Salahuddin M, Manzar MD, Hassen HY, Unissa A, Abdul Hameed U, Spence DW,
Pandi-Perumal SR
HIV/AIDS Research and Palliative Care. 12:559-572, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33116918
BACKGROUND: Modern antiretroviral therapy has extended the life expectancies of
people living with HIV; however, the prevention and treatment of their associated
neurocognitive decline have remained a challenge. Consequently, it is desirable to
investigate the prevalence and predictors of neurocognitive impairment to help in
targeted screening and disease prevention.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred and forty-four people living with HIV
were interviewed in a study using a cross-sectional design and the International HIV
Dementia Scale (IHDS). Additionally, the sociodemographic, clinical, and
psychosocial characteristics of the patients were recorded. Chi-square and binary
logistic regression analysis were used to determine the level of significance among
the independent risk factors and probable neurocognitive impairment.
RESULTS: The point prevalence of neurocognitive impairment was found to be
39.3%. Participants ' characteristics of being older than 40 years (AOR= 2.81 (95%
CI; 1.11-7.15)), having a history of recreational drug use (AOR= 13.67 (95% CI; 6.42-
29.13)), and being non-compliant with prescribed medications (AOR= 2.99 (95% CI;
1.01-8.87)) were independent risk factors for neurocognitive impairment.
CONCLUSION: The identification of predictors, in the Ethiopian people living with
HIV, may help in the targeted screening of vulnerable groups during cART follow-up
visits. This may greatly help in strategizing and implementation of the prevention
program, more so, because (i) HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment is an
asymptomatic condition for considerable durations, and (ii) clinical trials on
neurocognitive impairment therapies have been unsuccessful.
Copyright © 2020 Salahuddin et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINEAuthor NameID
Salahuddin, Mohammed; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7306-5989   Manzar,
Md Dilshad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5571-3310 
Hassen, Hamid Yimam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6485-4193 
Abdul Hameed, Unaise; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6689-9958 
Spence, David Warren; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1664-6960 
Pandi-Perumal, Seithikurippu R; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8686-7259 
Authors Full Name
Salahuddin, Mohammed, Manzar, Md Dilshad, Hassen, Hamid Yimam, Unissa,
Aleem, Abdul Hameed, Unaise, Spence, David Warren, Pandi-Perumal,
Seithikurippu R
Institution
Salahuddin, Mohammed. Department of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Mizan-Tepi University (Mizan Campus), Mizan, Ethiopia.   Salahuddin,
Mohammed. Pharmacology Division, Department of BioMolecular Sciences,
University of Mississippi, Oxford, Mississippi, USA.
Manzar, Md Dilshad. Department of Nursing, College of Applied Medical Sciences,
Majmaah University, Al Majmaah 11952, Saudi Arabia.
Hassen, Hamid Yimam. Department of Public Health, College of Health Sciences,
Mizan Tepi University, (Mizan Campus), Mizan, Ethiopia.
Hassen, Hamid Yimam. Department of Primary and Interdisciplinary Care, College of
Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
Unissa, Aleem. Malla Reddy College of Pharmacy, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.
Abdul Hameed, Unaise. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing
and Health Sciences, Monash University, Australia.
Spence, David Warren. Independent Researcher, Toronto, ON M6K 2B4, Canada.
Pandi-Perumal, Seithikurippu R. Somnogen Canada Inc, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
39.
  
Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of Elderly Outpatients with Type 2 Diabetes
Mellitus in National Geriatric Hospital, Vietnam.
Nguyen AT, Pham HQ, Nguyen TX, Nguyen TTH, Nguyen HTT, Nguyen TN, Dinh
DTK, Phan HT, Nguyen SH, Tran BX, Latkin CA, Ho RCM, Ho CSH, Pham T, Vu
HTT
Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity Targets and Therapy. 13:3909-3917,
2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33116737
BACKGROUND: Diabetes-related complications have become increasingly prevalent
and complicated to manage, especially among frail older adults with co-morbidities,
poor physical function, and impaired cognition. Thus, knowledge, attitude, and
practice (KAP) of elderly diabetic patients play an essential role in controlling the
disease and its complications.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted on 176 diabetic
patients at the outpatient clinics, National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam fromAugust to November 2015. Patients' knowledge, attitude, and practice regarding
diabetes mellitus were assessed using a structured questionnaire. Exploratory factor
analysis and multivariate Tobit regression model were used to identify factors
associated with knowledge, attitude, practice about diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS: Of 176 diabetic patients, patients' knowledge was divided into two main
groups: "Diabetes definition and management" (mean score = 57.7 +/- 25.6) and
"Targets for diabetic control" (mean score = 66.1 +/- 30.4). Patients scored high
points of attitudes toward diabetes severity and its complications (mean score = 95.8
+/- 13.0); however, knowledge and practice scores were only moderate (mean score
= 68.1 +/- 16.8). There were only 8.5% of people having daily self-blood glucose
monitoring. Advanced age, low educational level, rural area, and duration of diabetes
less than 5 years were negative associated with knowledge, attitude, and practice
regarding diabetes mellitus. This study also shows that frailty and co-
morbidities/diabetic complications could impair patients' knowledge.
CONCLUSION: Older patients with diabetes had high levels of perceived severity
attitudes on diabetes mellitus. However, the knowledge and practice levels were still
inadequate. Pragmatic diabetic health literacy, counseling and education programs,
as well as home-based treatments are viable options to improve health outcomes.
Copyright © 2020 Nguyen et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9858-9268   Nguyen, Thu
Thi Hoai; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5024-2812 
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6738-7663 
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9265-1887 
Latkin, Carl A; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7931-2116 
Ho, Roger C M; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9629-4493 
Ho, Cyrus S H; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7092-9566 
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3132-3801 
Authors Full Name
Nguyen, Anh Trung, Pham, Hai Quang, Nguyen, Thanh Xuan, Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai,
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu, Nguyen, Tam Ngoc, Dinh, Dung Thi Kim, Phan, Hai Thanh,
Nguyen, Son Hoang, Tran, Bach Xuan, Latkin, Carl A, Ho, Roger C M, Ho, Cyrus S
H, Pham, Thang, Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh
Institution
Nguyen, Anh Trung. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.   Nguyen, Anh Trung.
National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Pham, Hai Quang. Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Da
Nang, Vietnam.
Pham, Hai Quang. Faculty of Medicine, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000,
Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. Dinh Tien Hoang Institute of Medicine, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Dinh, Dung Thi Kim. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Phan, Hai Thanh. Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Da
Nang, Vietnam.
Phan, Hai Thanh. Faculty of Medicine, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000,
Vietnam.Nguyen, Son Hoang. Center of Excellence in Health Services and System Research,
Nguyen Tat Thanh University, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam.
Tran, Bach Xuan. Institute for Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Hanoi Medical
University, Hanoi 100000, Vietnam.
Tran, Bach Xuan. Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
Latkin, Carl A. Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
Ho, Roger C M. Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Ho, Roger C M. Institute for Health Innovation and Technology (iHealthtech),
National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Ho, Cyrus S H. Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Pham, Thang. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
40.
  
Effects of HDAC inhibitors on spatial memory and memory extinction in SPS-induced
PTSD rats.
Mohammadi-Farani A, Pourmotabbed A, Ardeshirizadeh Y
Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences. 15(3):241-248, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33088324
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Neurobiological changes in memory processes
seem to play a role in the pathophysiology of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Memory itself is influenced by PTSD, too. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDAIs)
have shown promising results in the extinction of fear-related memories in animals
and hence they seem to be important for the treatment of PTSD. Data are scarce
about the effect of HDAIs in spatial memory formation/extinction in PTSD models.
The main goal of the present work is to find the effect of sodium butyrate (NaBu), as
an HDAI, on spatial memory and spatial memory extinction in rats exposed to single
prolonged stress procedure (SPS).
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Different doses of NaBu were administered
subcutaneously for 7 days in different groups of rats after SPS procedure. Learning,
memory, and extinction of memory were evaluated in the Morris water maze test of
spatial memory in 6 consecutive days.
FINDINGS / RESULTS: The results show that NaBu (0.5 mg/kg) alleviates impaired
learning and memory in SPS rats. It also facilitates the extinction of newly formed
memory in the animals.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Our data suggest that the administration of
HDAIs after a traumatic experience can prevent the aversive effects of SPS on
spatial memory. It also reinforces the notion that extinction of spatial memoryinvolves the same or similar brain circuitry that is involved in the extinction of fear
memories in PTSD patients.
Copyright: © 2020 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad, Pourmotabbed, Ali, Ardeshirizadeh, Yazdan
Institution
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad. Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health
Institute, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad. Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Medical
Services, School of Pharmacy, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences,
Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Pourmotabbed, Ali. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kermanshah
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Ardeshirizadeh, Yazdan. Student Research Committee, Kermanshah University of
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
41.
  
Protective effect of Mucuna pruriens against arsenic-induced liver and kidney
dysfunction and neurobehavioral alterations in rats.
Concessao P, Bairy LK, Raghavendra AP
Veterinary World. 13(8):1555-1566, 2020 Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33061227
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Intoxication of arsenic in rats is known to result in
neurological effects as well as liver and kidney dysfunction. Mucuna pruriens has
been identified for its medicinal properties. The aim of the study was to investigate
the protective effect of aqueous seed extract of M. pruriens on sodium arsenite-
induced memory impairment, liver, and kidney functions in rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiment was divided into short-term treatment
(45 days) and long-term treatment (90 days), with each group divided into nine sub-
groups consisting of six animals each. Sub-groups 1 and 2 served as normal, and N-
acetylcysteine (NAC) controls, respectively. Sub-groups 3-9 received sodium
arsenite in drinking water (50 mg/L). In addition, sub-group 4 received NAC (210
mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily, sub-groups 5-7 received aqueous seed extract of M.
pruriens (350 mg/kg b.wt, 530 mg/kg b.wt, and 700 mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily and
sub-groups 8 and 9 received a combination of NAC and aqueous seed extract of M.
pruriens (350 mg/kg b.wt and 530 mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily. Following the
treatment, the blood was drawn retro-orbitally to assess the liver (serum alanine
transaminase [ALT], serum aspartate transaminase, and serum alkaline
phosphatase) and kidney (serum urea and serum creatinine) functions. Learning and
memory were assessed by passive avoidance test. Animals were sacrificed by anoverdose of ketamine, and their Nissl stained hippocampal sections were analyzed
for alterations in neural cell numbers in CA1 and CA3 regions.
RESULTS: In the short-term treatment, groups administered with M. pruriens 530
mg/kg b.wt alone and combination of NAC + M. pruriens 350 mg/kg b.wt exhibited a
significant improvement in memory retention, less severe neurodegeneration, and
decrease in serum ALT levels. In long-term treatment, groups administered with M.
pruriens 700 mg/kg b.wt alone and combination of NAC+M. pruriens 350 mg/kg b.wt,
respectively, showed better memory retention, decreased neural deficits, and
reduced levels of kidney and liver enzymes.
CONCLUSION: The seed extract of M. pruriens showed significant enhancement in
memory and learning. The number of surviving neurons in the CA1 and CA3 regions
also increased on treatment with M. pruriens. Serum ALT, serum urea, and serum
creatinine levels showed significant improvement on long-term treatment with M.
pruriens.
Copyright: © Concessao, et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Concessao, Preethi, Bairy, Laxminarayana Kurady, Raghavendra, Archana
Parampalli
Institution
Concessao, Preethi. Department of Physiology, Melaka Manipal Medical College,
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.   Bairy,
Laxminarayana Kurady. Department of Pharmacology, RAK College of Medical
Sciences, RAK Medical and Health Sciences University, Ras Al Khaimah, United
Arab Emirates.
Raghavendra, Archana Parampalli. Department of Physiology, Melaka Manipal
Medical College, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
42.
  
The Role of Nutrition and Inflammation on Cognition in a High-Risk Group for
Alzheimer's Disease.
Jackson JM, Bay AA, Barter JD, Ni L, Caudle WM, Serra MC, Wharton W, Hackney
ME
JAD Reports. 4(1):345-352, 2020 Aug 28.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33024941
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative
disease. Treatments are necessary to target people at high risk for AD. Inflammation,
particularly tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), appears to be an important
marker associated with the development of AD pathophysiology. Consuming a high-
fat diet induces tissue expression of TNFalpha.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the relationship between nutrition, circulatinginflammation, and cognition in African American women (age: M = 59.5 (+/-8.20) [42-
73] years) at risk for developing AD.
METHODS: Participants were split into high-fat and low-fat groups based on total
dietary fat consumption self-reported on the Lower Mississippi Delta Nutrition
Intervention Research Initiative Food Frequency Questionnaire (Delta NIRI FFQ).
RESULTS: A high-fat diet was associated with increased blood serum TNFalpha (p =
0.02) compared to the low-fat diet. In addition, global cognition scores were 9.0%
better in those who consumed a higher fat diet (p = 0.04). No significant differences
across groups were noted for executive function, dual-tasking, and visuospatial
performance.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that there may be multiple biological pathways
involved in AD development, suggesting the need for more holistic approaches to
mitigate AD-development risk.
Copyright © 2020 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jackson, Jordan M, Bay, Allison A, Barter, Jolie Denise, Ni, Liang, Caudle, William
Michael, Serra, Monica C, Wharton, Whitney, Hackney, Madeleine E
Institution
Jackson, Jordan M. Emory University's Rollins School of Public Health, Gangarosa
Department of Environmental Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.   Bay, Allison A. Emory
University School of Medicine Department of Medicine, Division of General Medicine
and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Barter, Jolie Denise. Emory University School of Medicine Department of Medicine,
Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Ni, Liang. Emory University School of Medicine Department of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Caudle, William Michael. Emory University's Rollins School of Public Health,
Gangarosa Department of Environmental Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Caudle, William Michael. Emory Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Atlanta, GA,
USA.
Serra, Monica C. Division of Geriatrics, Gerontology & Palliative Medicine,
Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio,
San Antonio, TX, USA.
Serra, Monica C. San Antonio Geriatrics Research, Education & Clinical Center,
South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
Wharton, Whitney. Emory University School of Nursing, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Medicine Department of
Medicine, Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Nursing, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Atlanta VA Center for Visual and Neurocognitive
Rehabilitation, Decatur, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Medicine, Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
43.
  
Normative Data for the Symbol Digit Modalities Test in Older White Australians and
Americans, African-Americans, and Hispanic/Latinos.
Ryan J, Woods RL, Britt CJ, Murray AM, Shah RC, Reid CM, Wolfe R, Nelson MR,
Orchard SG, Lockery JE, Trevaks RE, Storey E, behalf of the ASPREE Investigator
Group on
JAD Reports. 4(1):313-323, 2020 Aug 04.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33024939
BACKGROUND: Processing speed, which can be assessed using the Symbol Digit
Modalities Test (SDMT), is central to many brain functions. Processing speed
declines with advanced age but substantial impairments are indicative of brain injury
or disease.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to provide SDMT normative data for
older community-dwelling individuals in the U.S. and Australia.
METHODS: The ASPREE trial recruited 19,114 relatively healthy older men and
women in Australia and the U.S. from the general community. All participants were
without a diagnosis of dementia and with a Modified Mini-Mental State examination
score of 78 or more at enrolment. The SDMT was administered at baseline as part of
a neuropsychological test battery.
RESULTS: The median age of participants was 74 years (range 65-99), and 56%
were women. The median years of education was 12. Ethno-racial differences in
SDMT performance were observed and normative data were thus presented
separately for 16,289 white Australians, 1,082 white Americans, 891 African-
Americans, and 316 Hispanic/Latinos. There were consistent positive associations
found between SDMT and education level, and negative associations between
SDMT and age. Mean scores for women were consistently higher than men with the
exception of Hispanic/Latinos aged >=70 years.
CONCLUSION: This study provides comprehensive SDMT normative data for whites
(Australian and U.S.), Hispanic/Latinos, and African-Americans, according to gender,
age, and education level. These norms can be used clinically as reference standards
to screen for cognitive impairments in older individuals.
Copyright © 2020 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Ryan, Joanne; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7039-6325 
Authors Full Name
Ryan, Joanne, Woods, Robyn L, Britt, Carlene J, Murray, Anne M, Shah, Raj C,
Reid, Christopher M, Wolfe, Rory, Nelson, Mark R, Orchard, Suzanne G, Lockery,
Jessica E, Trevaks, Ruth E, Storey, Elsdon, behalf of the ASPREE Investigator
Group on
Institution
Ryan, Joanne. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.   Woods, Robyn L. School of Public Health and
Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Britt, Carlene J. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Murray, Anne M. Berman Center for Outcomes and Clinical Research, Hennepin
Health Research Institute and Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine,
Hennepin HealthCare and University of Minnesota, MN, USA.
Shah, Raj C. Department of Family Medicine and Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center,Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
Reid, Christopher M. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Reid, Christopher M. School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western
Australia, Australia.
Wolfe, Rory. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Nelson, Mark R. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Nelson, Mark R. Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania,
Hobart, Australia.
Orchard, Suzanne G. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Lockery, Jessica E. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Trevaks, Ruth E. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Storey, Elsdon. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
44.
  
Memory training combined with 3D visuospatial stimulus improves cognitive
performance in the elderly: pilot study.
Assed MM, Rocca CCA, Garcia YM, Khafif TC, Belizario GO, Toschi-Dias E, Serafim
AP
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(3):290-299, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32973982
Studies suggest that the engagement of aged participants in cognitive stimulation
programs can reduce expected cognitive decline associated with age.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of memory training (MT) associated with three-
dimensional multiple object tracking (3D-MOT) NeuroTracker (NT) in the elderly.
METHODS: Forty-four participants (>60 years of age) were recruited and randomly
distributed into two groups: experimental (EG; n=22) and comparative (CG; n=22).
Both groups performed 12 one-hour MT sessions, twice a week, consisting of
specific computerized stimuli associated with teaching of mnemonic strategies; 10
minutes of NT was part only of the EG's sessions. In pre- and post-training periods,
both groups were evaluated using a sociodemographic questionnaire,
neuropsychological assessment, as well as a specific measure offered by NT.
RESULTS: Both groups benefited from the MT and reported more positive feelings
regarding their memory and quality of life. However, the EG obtained better results in
tests consistent with the strategies trained and which involved attentional resources,
reaction time, visual processing speed, episodic, semantic, subjective and working
memory as well as aspects of social cognition.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that the combination of MT and 3D-MOTcontributed for a better cognitive performance in the EG. Thus, the results of the
present study encourage further research and the development of combined
cognitive interventions for the elderly population with and without cognitive deficits.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Assed, Mariana Medeiros; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0440-9914   Rocca,
Cristiana Castanho de Almeida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5237-0957 
Khafif, Tatiana Cohab; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0806-1249 
Belizario, Gabriel Okawa; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8260-4857 
Toschi-Dias, Edgar; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5226-2956 
Serafim, Antonio de Padua; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0676-1500 
Authors Full Name
Assed, Mariana Medeiros, Rocca, Cristiana Castanho de Almeida, Garcia, Yolanda
Maria, Khafif, Tatiana Cohab, Belizario, Gabriel Okawa, Toschi-Dias, Edgar, Serafim,
Antonio de Padua
Institution
Assed, Mariana Medeiros. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.   Rocca, Cristiana Castanho de Almeida. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and
Department of Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao
Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Garcia, Yolanda Maria. Department of Geriatrics, Faculdade de Medicina da
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Khafif, Tatiana Cohab. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Belizario, Gabriel Okawa. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Toschi-Dias, Edgar. Health Psychology Program, Universidade Metodista Sao Paulo,
Sao Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil.
Serafim, Antonio de Padua. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Serafim, Antonio de Padua. Health Psychology Program, Universidade Metodista
Sao Paulo, Sao Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Estudos sugerem que o envolvimento de idosos em programas de estimulacao
cognitiva pode reduzir o declinio cognitivo esperado associado a idade.OBJETIVO:
Avaliar os efeitos de um treinamento de memoria (TM) associado a um estimulo
visuoespacial tridimensional (3D-MOT) NeuroTracker (NT) em idosos.METODO:
Quarenta e quatro participantes (>60 anos) foram recrutados e distribuidos
aleatoriamente em dois grupos: experimental (GE; n=22) e comparativo (GC; n=22).
Ambos os grupos realizaram 12 sessoes do TM de uma hora, duas vezes por
semana, consistindo em estimulos computadorizados especificos associados ao
ensino de estrategias mnemonicas; apenas nas sessoes do GE foram utilizados 10
minutos com o NT. Nos periodos pre- e pos-treinamento, ambos os grupos foram
avaliados por meio de questionario sociodemografico, avaliacao neuropsicologica e
medidas cognitivas especificas do NT.RESULTADOS: Ambos os grupos se
beneficiaram do TM e relataram sentimentos mais positivos em relacao a memoria e
a qualidade de vida. No entanto, o GE obteve melhores resultados em testes
consistentes com as estrategias treinadas e que envolviam recursos atencionais,
tempo de reacao, velocidade de processamento visual, memoria episodica,
semantica, subjetiva e de trabalho, alem de aspectos da cognicaosocial.CONCLUSOES: Este estudo mostrou que a combinacao do TM e 3D-MOT
contribuiu para um melhor desempenho cognitivo no GE. Dessa forma, os resultados
do presente estudo incentivam novas pesquisas e o desenvolvimento de
intervencoes cognitivas combinadas para a populacao idosa com e sem deficits
cognitivos.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
45.
  
Dietary interventions and cognition of Alzheimer's disease patients: a systematic
review of randomized controlled trial.
Moreira SC, Jansen AK, Silva FM
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(3):258-282, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32973980
It is estimated that by 2030 there will be 82 million people in the world with dementia.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of dietary interventions on the cognitive
performance of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCT) was
conducted in the Scopus, PubMed, and Cochrane databases. Thirty-two RCT were
included.
RESULTS: Omega-3 fatty acid showed positive effects at different doses. Fortasyn
Connect seemed to be effective in the early stages of the disease. Probiotic,
Ginseng, Inositol and specialized nutritional formulas seemed to have a positive
effect on cognition. Most of the primary studies presented poor methodological
quality, included patients with mild AD, small samples, and did not obtain significative
results for all the cognitive outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of most dietary interventions on cognition in AD patients
remains inconclusive, however, several nutrients, isolated or not, show potential to
improve cognitive function in AD, especially in its early stages.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Moreira, Sophia Camargos; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4369-3797   Jansen,
Ann Kristine; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0254-7045 
Silva, Flavia Moraes; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0730-5424 
Authors Full Name
Moreira, Sophia Camargos, Jansen, Ann Kristine, Silva, Flavia Moraes
Institution
Moreira, Sophia Camargos. Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Ringgold
Standard Institution - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.   Jansen, Ann Kristine.
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Ringgold Standard Institution - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Silva, Flavia Moraes. Universidade Federal de Ciencias da Saude de Porto Alegre,Ringgold Standard Institution - Nutrition - Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Estima-se que ate 2030 havera 82 milhoes de pessoas no mundo com
demencia.OBJETIVO: Avaliar o efeito de intervencoes dieteticas no desempenho
cognitivo de individuos com DA.METODOS: Foi realizada uma revisao sistematica
de ensaios clinicos randomizados (ECR) nas bases de dados Scopus, PubMed e
Cochrane. Trinta e dois ECRs foram incluidos.RESULTADOS: Acidos graxos
omega-3 apresentaram efeitos positivos em diferentes doses. O Fortasyn Connect
mostrou-se efetivo em estagios iniciais. Probioticos, Ginseng, Inositol e formulas
nutricionais especializadas tambem demonstraram efeito positivo sobre a cognicao.
A maioria dos estudos primarios apresentou baixa qualidade metodologica, incluiu
pacientes com DA leve e amostras pequenas e nao obteve resultados significativos
para todos os desfechos cognitivos.CONCLUSOES: O efeito da maioria das
intervencoes dieteticas em pacientes com DA permanece inconclusivo; entretanto,
varios nutrientes, isolados ou nao, apresentam potencial para melhorar a funcao
cognitiva na DA, principalmente em seu estagio inicial.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
46.
  
Usnic acid improves memory impairment after cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injuries
by anti-neuroinflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-apoptotic properties.
Erfani S, Valadbeigi T, Aboutaleb N, Karimi N, Moghimi A, Khaksari M
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(9):1225-1231, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32963745
OBJECTIVES: Cerebral ischemia/reperfusion causes complex pathological
mechanisms that lead to brain tissue damage. Usnic acid is a lichen secondary
metabolite that has many different biological properties including anti-inflammatory
and anti-oxidant activities. Therefore, the objective of the current study was to
investigate the neuroprotective effects of usnic acid on apoptotic cell death,
neuroinflammation, anti-oxidant enzyme activities, and oxidative stress levels after
transient cerebral ischemia/reperfusion.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two male Wistar rats were randomly assigned
to three groups (sham, ischemia/reperfusion, and ischemia/reperfusion+usnic acid).
Ischemia was induced by 20 min occlusion of common carotid arteries. Injection of
usnic acid (25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and saline was done at the beginning of
reperfusion time. Morris water maze was applied to assess spatial memory. The
protein expression amount was measured using immunohistochemical and
immunofluorescence staining. Spectrophotometric assay was performed to
determine the levels of anti-oxidant enzymes.
RESULTS: Usnic acid significantly reduced caspase-3, glial fibrillary acidic protein-
positive and ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1-positive cells (P<0.001) and
enhanced spatial memory disorders (P<0.05) due to brain ischemia. In addition,
treatment with usnic acid improves effects in the antioxidant system followingcerebral ischemia (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that usnic acid has neuroprotective properties,
which possibly is applicable as a promising candidate for cerebral injuries caused by
ischemia.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Erfani, Sohaila, Valadbeigi, Tahereh, Aboutaleb, Nahid, Karimi, Naser, Moghimi, Ali,
Khaksari, Mehdi
Institution
Erfani, Sohaila. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ilam University, Ilam,
Iran.   Valadbeigi, Tahereh. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ilam
University, Ilam, Iran.
Aboutaleb, Nahid. Physiology Research Center and Department of Physiology,
Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aboutaleb, Nahid. Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Karimi, Naser. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Razi University of
Kermanshah, Kermanshah, Iran.
Moghimi, Ali. Rayan Center for Neuroscience and Behavior, Department of Biology,
Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
Khaksari, Mehdi. School of Medicine, Shahroud University of Medical Sciences,
Shahroud, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
47.
  
Prevalence of potentially inappropriate prescriptions in primary care and correlates
with mild cognitive impairment.
Harasani K, Xhafaj D, Begolli A, Olvera-Porcel MC
Pharmacy Practice. 18(3):2017, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32922574
BACKGROUND: Potentially inappropriate prescribing is clearly associated with
adverse health consequences among older people. Nevertheless, scarce evidence
exists regarding the prevalence of potentially inappropriate prescriptions (PIP) in
Albania, a Western Balkans country.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of PIP among older
Albanian patients in primary care and to determine the associated sociodemographic
and medical factors, including the presence of mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: Cross-sectional study in two primary healthcare centers located in two
different cities of Albania, a middle-income country in the Western Balkans. The
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) tool was applied to evaluate MCI. PIPs were
assessed by two trained pharmacists using the Beers criteria 2019 update.
Multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted for possible risk factorspredicting PIP in the study population.
RESULTS: At least one PIP was identified among 40.23 % of the participants (174
older patients) and 10.35 % had more than one PIP. MCI was detected among 79.31
% of the patients. The most commonly represented drug groups in PIP were diuretics
(24.71 %), benzodiazepines in the presence of MCI and antidepressants (both 8.62
%). The lack of electrolytes monitoring was the most common reason for PIP.
According to the multivariate analysis, the only statistically significant association
observed was between PIP and number of drugs prescribed [three to four drugs (OR
3.34; 95% CI 1.65:6.76), five or more than five drugs (OR 4.08; 95% CI 1.42:11.69)].
CONCLUSIONS: About four out of 10 older Albanian patients experience PIP in
primary care. Further studies are needed for a comprehensive estimation of the
prevalence and factors associated with PIP, particularly among elderly with mild
cognitive impairment.
Copyright: © Pharmacy Practice and the Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Harasani, Klejda; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1877-6662   Xhafaj, Delina;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9166-8270 
Begolli, Anxhela; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9786-4443 
Olvera-Porcel, Maria C; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8374-064X 
Authors Full Name
Harasani, Klejda, Xhafaj, Delina, Begolli, Anxhela, Olvera-Porcel, Maria C
Institution
Harasani, Klejda. PhD. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Medicine of Tirana. Tirana (Albania). klejda.harasani@umed.edu.al.   Xhafaj, Delina.
PhD. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Medicine of Tirana.
Tirana (Albania). delinahudhra@gmail.com.
Begolli, Anxhela. MSc. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Medicine of Tirana. Tirana (Albania). anxhelabegolli@hotmail.com.
Olvera-Porcel, Maria C. PhD. Public Foundation for Biomedical Research of Oriental
Andalusia. Granada (Spain). manme_olv@hotmail.com.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
48.
  
Impaired cerebral hemodynamics in late-onset depression: computed tomography
angiography, computed tomography perfusion, and magnetic resonance imaging
evaluation.
Wang J, Li R, Liu M, Nie Z, Jin L, Lu Z, Li Y
Quantitative Imaging in Medicine & Surgery. 10(9):1763-1774, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32879855
BACKGROUND: Late-onset depression (LOD) is often difficult to recognize when
there is an absence of a family history of depression and less severepsychopathology. Increasing evidence has shown that the development and course
of LOD symptomatology are associated with cerebrovascular comorbidities and
cerebral microvascular lesions. This study was designed to evaluate the associations
of LOD with macrovascular and microvascular changes in the brain by using a multi-
imaging method, including computed tomography angiography (CTA), CT perfusion
(CTP), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to explore the course and
pathomechanism of LOD.
METHODS: A total of 116 participants were divided into two groups. Participants
older than 60 years who met the diagnostic criteria of depression [International
Classification of Diseases (ICD), 10th Edition] were enrolled in the LOD group, and
the remainder were age- and sex-matched into the control group. The
cognitive/mood status of all participants was evaluated by an experienced
neuropsychologist. Global and regional mean cerebral blood flow (CBF) were
measured by CT cerebrovascular perfusion imaging; the stenosis of the bilateral
intracranial large arteries (internal carotid artery, anterior cerebral artery, middle
cerebral artery, posterior cerebral artery, and vertebral artery) was recorded by CTA;
regional white matter hyperintensity (WMH) loads were evaluated by fluid-attenuated
inversion recovery (FLAIR) MRI; and the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) was
used to evaluate depression status.
RESULTS: Our key findings were the following: (I) participants in the LOD group
were more prone to intracranial arterial stenosis (81.1% vs. 74.6%), had more severe
stenotic arteries compared with controls (Z=2.024, P<0.05), and significantly more
participants with LOD had severe stenosis of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) (9.4%
vs. 0%, P<0.05); (II) there was a significant difference in hypoperfusion of the frontal
and parietal lobes superposed on global cerebral hypoperfusion between the two
groups (P<0.001); (III) and there was a significant difference in high WMH loads in
deep white matter (DWM) between the two groups (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A low global or regional perfusion state, moderate-to-severe
stenosis of MCAs, and high WMH loads could be used as imaging biomarkers to
indicate diffuse or localized cerebral macrovascular and microvascular pathology in
LOD.
Copyright 2020 Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Wang, Jinhong, Li, Renren, Liu, Meng, Nie, Zhiyu, Jin, Lingjing, Lu, Zheng, Li, Yunxia
Institution
Wang, Jinhong. Department of Medical Imaging, Shanghai Mental Health Center,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.   Li, Renren.
Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine,
Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Liu, Meng. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Nie, Zhiyu. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Jin, Lingjing. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Lu, Zheng. Department of Psychiatry, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Li, Yunxia. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
49.
  
Effects of Levetiracetam Compared to Valproate on Cognitive Functions of Patients
with Epilepsy.
El Sabaa RM, Hamdi E, Hamdy NA, Sarhan HA
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1945-1953, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32848400
OBJECTIVE: This study compared the effect of levetiracetam (LEV) as monotherapy
to sodium valproate (VPA) as monotherapy on cognitive functions in patients with
epilepsy.
METHODS: This was a comparative prospective study on 50 patients with newly
diagnosed epilepsy started on antiseizure medications. Patients were selected from
the neurology-outpatient clinics at Minia University Hospital, Minia, Egypt. They were
divided into two groups: group treated with LEV and group treated with VPA. All
patients were subjected to cognitive function assessment using reaction-time tests,
trail-making tests, and Wisconsin card-sorting test before treatment and 3 months
after treatment.
RESULTS: Both groups of patients showed reduction in seizure frequency. However,
patients on LEV showed significant improvement in measured cognitive functions 3
months after starting treatment, while patients in the VPA group showed significant
impairment in measured cognitive functions 3 months after starting treatment.
CONCLUSION: Both groups of patients showed reduction in seizure frequency.
However, patients on LEV showed significant improvement in measured cognitive
functions 3 months after starting treatment, while patients in the VPA group showed
significant impairment in measured cognitive functions 3 months after starting
treatment.
Copyright © 2020 El Sabaa et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
El Sabaa, Ramy M, Hamdi, Emad, Hamdy, Nermin Aly, Sarhan, Hatem A
Institution
El Sabaa, Ramy M. Clinical Pharmacy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Deraya
University, Minia, Egypt.   Hamdi, Emad. Deraya University President, Minia, Egypt.
Hamdi, Emad. Psychiatry Department, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo,
Egypt.
Hamdy, Nermin Aly. Neurology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University,
Minia, Egypt.
Sarhan, Hatem A. Pharmaceutics Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia
University, Minia, Egypt.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
50.
  
Prediction of Amyloid Positivity in Mild Cognitive Impairment Using Fully Automated
Brain Segmentation Software.
Kang KM, Sohn CH, Byun MS, Lee JH, Yi D, Lee Y, Lee JY, Kim YK, Sohn BK, Yoo
RE, Yun TJ, Choi SH, Kim JH, Lee DY, KBASE Research Group
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1745-1754, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32801709
OBJECTIVE: To assess the predictive ability of regional volume information provided
by fully automated brain segmentation software for cerebral amyloid positivity in mild
cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: This study included 130 subjects with amnestic MCI who participated in
the Korean brain aging study of early diagnosis and prediction of Alzheimer's
disease, an ongoing prospective cohort. All participants underwent comprehensive
clinical assessment as well as 11C-labeled Pittsburgh compound PET/MRI scans.
The predictive ability of volumetric results provided by automated brain segmentation
software was evaluated using binary logistic regression and receiver operating
characteristic curve analysis.
RESULTS: Subjects were divided into two groups: one with Abeta deposition (58
subjects) and one without Abeta deposition (72 subjects). Among the varied
volumetric information provided, the hippocampal volume percentage of intracranial
volume (%HC/ICV), normative percentiles of hippocampal volume (HCnorm), and
gray matter volume were associated with amyloid-beta (Abeta) positivity (all P <
0.01). Multivariate analyses revealed that both %HC/ICV and HCnorm were
independent significant predictors of Abeta positivity (all P < 0.001). In addition,
prediction scores derived from %HC/ICV with age and HCnorm showed moderate
accuracy in predicting Abeta positivity in MCI subjects (the areas under the curve:
0.739 and 0.723, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Relative hippocampal volume measures provided by automated
brain segmentation software can be useful for screening cerebral Abeta positivity in
clinical practice for patients with amnestic MCI. The information may also help
clinicians interpret structural MRI to predict outcomes and determine early
intervention for delaying the progression to Alzheimer's disease dementia.
Copyright © 2020 Kang et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Kang, Koung Mi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9643-2008   Sohn, Chul-Ho;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0039-5746 
Byun, Min Soo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3159-4510 
Yi, Dahyun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0860-0946 
Lee, Jun-Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5893-3124 
Sohn, Bo Kyung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1444-1099 
Yoo, Roh-Eul; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5625-5921 
Yun, Tae Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8441-4574 
Kim, Ji-Hoon; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6349-6950 
Lee, Dong Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8976-8320 
Authors Full Name
Kang, Koung Mi, Sohn, Chul-Ho, Byun, Min Soo, Lee, Jun Ho, Yi, Dahyun, Lee,Younghwa, Lee, Jun-Young, Kim, Yu Kyeong, Sohn, Bo Kyung, Yoo, Roh-Eul, Yun,
Tae Jin, Choi, Seung Hong, Kim, Ji-Hoon, Lee, Dong Young, KBASE Research
Group
Institution
Kang, Koung Mi. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.   Sohn, Chul-Ho. Department of Radiology, Seoul National
University Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of
Korea.
Byun, Min Soo. Medical Research Center Seoul National University, Institute of
Human Behavioral Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Jun Ho. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Yi, Dahyun. Medical Research Center Seoul National University, Institute of Human
Behavioral Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Younghwa. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Jun-Young. Department of Neuropsychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Yu Kyeong. Department of Nuclear Medicine, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Sohn, Bo Kyung. Department of Psychiatry, Sanggye Paik Hospital, Inje University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Yoo, Roh-Eul. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Yun, Tae Jin. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Choi, Seung Hong. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Ji-Hoon. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Lee, Dong Young. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
51.
  
Effects of Cyperus rotundus Extract on Spatial Memory Impairment and Neuronal
Differentiation in Rat Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Shakerin Z, Esfandiari E, Razavi S, Alaei H, Ghanadian M, Dashti G
Advanced Biomedical Research. 9:17, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32775310
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common
neurodegenerative diseases in the older population and characterized by progressive
memory and cognitive impairment. Cyperus rotundus, a traditional medicinal herb,
has analgesic, sedative, and anti-inflammatory effects and also used to increase
memory in Islamic traditional medicine. This study was designed to consider theeffects of C. rotundus extract on memory impairment and neurogenesis in the Beta-
Amyloid rats' model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two male Wistar rats were randomly divided into
six groups (n = 7) for the evaluation of baseline training performance in the Morris
water maze test. Then, amyloid-beta (Abeta1-42) was injected in animal hippocampal
CA1 bilaterally in four groups. The first probe trial was performed 21 days after Abeta
injection. Then, 250, 500, and 750 mg/kg of C. rotundus extract were administered to
three Abeta-injected groups for 1 month; after that, the second probe trial was
performed, and rats were sacrificed after 28 days of the second probe trial. The
neurogenesis was detected in the hippocampus, by immunohistochemical staining.
RESULTS: This study showed that spatial memory increased in the behavioral test in
AD treated group with C. rotundus extract, compared with the AD group (P = 0.02).
Immunohistochemical staining revealed that neuronal differentiation has been
occurred in the hippocampus in the AD-treated group with C. rotundus extract
compared with the AD group (P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that C. rotundus extract, repaired spatial
memory impairment in the Abeta rats, through increased neurogenesis in the
hippocampus, which could be related to the flavonoid components in the extract.
Copyright: © 2020 Advanced Biomedical Research.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shakerin, Zeinab, Esfandiari, Ebrahim, Razavi, Shahnaz, Alaei, Hojjatallah,
Ghanadian, Mustafa, Dashti, Gholamreza
Institution
Shakerin, Zeinab. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.   Esfandiari, Ebrahim. Department of Anatomical Sciences,
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Razavi, Shahnaz. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Alaei, Hojjatallah. Department of Physiological Sciences, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Ghanadian, Mustafa. Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Dashti, Gholamreza. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
52.
  
Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy Tube Removal for Patients With Advanced
Dementia: Case Series Study.
Hattori Y, Kojima T, Komura H, Ura N, Akishita M
Annals of Geriatric Medicine & Research. 23(1):27-30, 2019 Mar.
[Journal Article]UI: 32743282
BACKGROUND: Although the notion of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
(PEG) tube placement for patients with dementia has been changing, the number of
cases of PEG placement remains high as Japan has become a super-aged society.
However, there is insufficient research about the clinical course of dementia patients
with PEG, especially regarding PEG extubation after regaining full oral intake. This
case series aimed to reveal the demographic data of patients who successfully
underwent PEG extubation and to identify clinical factors that might help predict
eventual resumption.
METHODS: This retrospective case series was identified in a private, community-
based long-term care hospital in Sapporo, Japan. Inclusion criteria for the series
were: 1) age, >=75 years, 2) diagnosis of any type of dementia, and 3) resumption of
full oral intake after removal of PEG tubes.
RESULTS: Eight female patients were identified. Decreased oral intake was
triggered by acute medical conditions, such as infectious enteritis. A trial of oral
intake was initiated mostly by speech therapists. A majority of the patients ate pureed
food. The patients aged >=85 years with advanced dementia could be weaned from
PEG tubes.
CONCLUSION: The series indicates that even patients with limited life expectancy
could recover swallowing function by receiving appropriate guidance and care.
Constant evaluation for swallowing function even after PEG insertion may be
important for PEG extubation.
Copyright © 2019 by The Korean Geriatric Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Kojima, Taro; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3857-5267 
Authors Full Name
Hattori, Yukari, Kojima, Taro, Komura, Hiroaki, Ura, Nobuyuki, Akishita, Masahiro
Institution
Hattori, Yukari. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.   Kojima, Taro. Department of Geriatric Medicine,
Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
Komura, Hiroaki. Sapporo Nishimaruyama Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
Ura, Nobuyuki. Sapporo Nishimaruyama Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
Akishita, Masahiro. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine,
The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
53.
  
Effect of Donepezil on Cognitive Impairment, Quality of Life, and Depression in
Multiple Sclerosis Patients: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
Shahpouri MM, Barekatain M, Tavakoli M, Badihian S, Shaygannejad V
International Journal of Preventive Medicine. 11:69, 2020.[Journal Article]
UI: 32742613
BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is one of the debilitating consequences of
multiple sclerosis (MS) with negative effects on daily life, individual and social
activities, quality of life (QOL), and depression. No approved medication is introduced
so far for affected individuals. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of donepezil on
cognitive performance, QOL, and depression in MS.
METHODS: This is a double-blinded randomized clinical trial conducted on 100
patients with MS during 2018. Patients were assessed prior to intervention
abbreviated mental test (AMT), prospective and retrospective mental questionnaire
(PRMQ), everyday memory questionnaire (EMQ), digit span test, Beck depression
inventory (BDI), and MSQOL questionnaire. Then patients were randomly divided
into two groups of treatment (daily regimen of 10 mg donepezil) and placebo for 3
months. Subjects were reassessed using the same instruments at the end of
intervention.
RESULTS: Fifty patients remained in each group at the end of study. The mean age
in donepezil and placebo groups was 31.9 +/- 5.89 and 30.65 +/- 5.43 years,
respectively. EMQ, PRMQ, digit span test, MSQOL, and depression scores improved
following donepezil therapy (P < 0.001) while no statistically significant difference
was found in the placebo group (P > 0.05). Comparison of two groups also showed
more favorable scores in donepezil group with respect to all assessment tools (P <
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Donepezil could effectively improve cognitive impairment in MS
patients. Also, its positive effect on QOL and depression could result in a smaller
number of interventions in this group of patients.
Copyright: © 2020 International Journal of Preventive Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shahpouri, Mohammad Mahdi, Barekatain, Majid, Tavakoli, Mahgol, Badihian,
Shervin, Shaygannejad, Vahid
Institution
Shahpouri, Mohammad Mahdi. Isfahan Neurosciences Research Center, Alzahra
Research Institute, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Barekatain, Majid. Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Tavakoli, Mahgol. Department of Psychology, School of Educational Sciences and
Psychology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
Badihian, Shervin. Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
Shaygannejad, Vahid. Isfahan Neurosciences Research Center, Alzahra Research
Institute, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
54.  
Phytotherapy for Cachexia: Where Do We Stand?. [Review]
Kuchta K, Cameron S
Frontiers in Pharmacology. 11:917, 2020.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32733236
BACKGROUND: In contrast to Western medicine which currently offers no approved
pharmacotherapy options for cachexia, in Japan multi-component extracts of
medicinal plants are used with coverage by the national health insurance. This so
called "Kampo" medicine is an example of the modern concept of multi-
component/multi-target therapy. For the three traditional preparations Hochuekkito (),
Juzentaihoto (), and Rikkunshito (), a multitude of clinical research data relating to
cachexia has been published. These preparations are also referred to as "Hozai" ().
A similar concept is found in Russian herbal medicine, where the term "Adaptogen"
was coined for pharmacologically active substances which enhance adaptive stress
repose.
METHODS: Scientific literature-including original Japanese articles-was reviewed
regarding the effects of these herbal preparations on cachexia. Cachexia is a
complex set of symptoms including muscle atrophy with loss of weight, fatigue, and
weakness.
RESULTS: In a 1985 study by Kuroda et al., Hochuekkito showed efficacy in
involuntary weight loss and fatigue in 63% of 162 patients with genitourinary cancer.
For cancer-related fatigue, a significant improvement was reported within 2 weeks by
Jeong et al. in 2010. In patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, Hochuekkito showed
an overall improvement with 8-12 weeks of therapy in a 1997 study by Kuratsune et
al. In a 2005 randomized placebo-controlled trial by Satoh et al. on 13 geriatric Q1
patients in a 16-week treatment protocol, Hochuekkito showed significant
improvement of general health, physical functioning and the Profile of Mood States
(POMS). In 71 geriatric COPD patients in a 2009 placebo-controlled randomized
study, Tatsumi et al. found a significant body weight increase and a CRP, TNF-alpha,
IL-6 decrease over 6 months of therapy. For Juzentaihoto in 48 hepatocellular
carcinoma patients, Tsuchiya et al. 2008 documented a significantly longer
recurrence-free survival (49 vs. 24 months) as compared to the control group
(p=0.023). For the much simpler Rikkunshito prescription, a 2011 retrospective study
by Fujitsuka et al. on 39 Stage III/IV pancreatic cancer patients treated with
Gemcitabine (n=33) or Gemcitabine/Rikkunshito (n=6) showed a significantly
prolonged median survival with 224 vs. 378.5 days (p < 0.05). In a 2011 open-label
clinical study by Utumi et al. on geriatric cachexia in 6 dementia patients, treatment
with Rikkunshito for 4 weeks resulted in a significant body weight increase. In all the
above studies, the standardized dosage of 3x2.5 g/d extract granules for most
Japanese health insurance-covered Kampo extract-preparations was applied.
CONCLUSION: As there is currently no accepted pharmacotherapy option for
cachexia available in the West, a transfer of these East Asian gold standard
prescriptions into the European market would be desirable. We were further able to
demonstrate that the mTOR, interleucin, and melatonin pathways are modified by
herbal compounds which thus counteract cachexia. More research in this field is
urgently needed in order to provide new, effective treatments for cachexia patients.
Copyright © 2020 Kuchta and Cameron.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Kuchta, Kenny, Cameron, Silke
Institution
Kuchta, Kenny. Clinic for Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Oncology, University
of Gottingen Medical School, Gottingen, Germany.   Cameron, Silke. Clinic for
Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Oncology, University of Gottingen MedicalSchool, Gottingen, Germany.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
55.
  
Antiretroviral therapy improves neurocognitive impairment in people living with HIV?
A meta-analysis. [Review]
Gao C, Meng J, Xiao X, Wang M, Williams AB, Wang H
International Journal of Nursing Sciences. 7(2):238-247, 2020 Apr 10.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32685622
OBJECTIVES: Although effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) has been used for
more than two decades, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder remains prevalent.
Thus, whether ART can improve neurocognitive impairment is controversial. This
review aims to explore the effects of ART on cognitive impairment in people living
with HIV (PLWH).
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted in eight databases
(PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, CNKI, VIP, China Biology
Medicine disc, and WanFang) to identify studies that compare cognitive function
between study groups who are administered and not administered ART. We
searched for articles published up to April 2019. Article evaluation and data
extraction were independently conducted by two reviewers.
RESULTS: Sixteen articles (6,694 participants)-14 cross-sectional studies and 2
cohort studies-were included in this meta-analysis. The cross-sectional studies
demonstrated that ART group did not perform better than the non-ART group (OR =
1.16; 95% CI, 1.03-1.30). However, the cohort studies reported a significant
improvement in cognitive function at three months (OR = 4.01; 95% CI, 2.35-6.85)
and six months (OR = 9.24; 95% CI, 1.71-49.96) after ART initiation compared with
the baseline data. No significant cognitive improvement was found in participants
younger than 55 years old, but the two cross-sectional studies showed that ART may
improve cognitive function in PLWH under 65 years old with poor physical condition
and immune status.
CONCLUSIONS: ART could improve cognitive function in PLWH with poor physical
condition and immune status, but it does not considerably improve cognition in the
entire PLWH population.
Copyright © 2020 Chinese Nursing Association. Production and hosting by Elsevier
B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Gao, Chang, Meng, Jingjing, Xiao, Xueling, Wang, Min, Williams, Ann Barterley,
Wang, Honghong
Institution
Gao, Chang. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.
Meng, Jingjing. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.Xiao, Xueling. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.
Wang, Min. The Institute of HIV/AIDS, The First Hospital in Changsha, Hunan, China.
Williams, Ann Barterley. Rory Meyers College of Nursing, New York University, New
York, USA.
Wang, Honghong. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
56.
  
Association of retinal nerve fiber abnormalities with serum CNTF and cognitive
functions in schizophrenia patients.
Liu Y, Huang L, Tong Y, Chen J, Gao D, Yang F
PeerJ. 8:e9279, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32676219
BACKGROUND: Recent studies have reported reductions in retinal nerve fiber layers
(RNFL) in schizophrenia. Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has shown protective
effects on both the neurogenesis and retina. This study aimed at investigating retinal
abnormalities and establishing their correlation with serum CNTF and cognitive
impairments in schizophrenic Chinese patients.
METHODS: In total, 221 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia and 149 healthy
controls were enrolled. Serum CNTF and clinical features of patients were
investigated. Cognitive functions were evaluated with Repeatable Battery for the
Assessment of Neuropsychology Status (RBANS). RNFL thickness and macular
thickness (MT) of both eyes were measured with optical coherence tomography
(OCT). T-tests and analysis of covariance were used to compare the variables
between the patient and control groups, while multiple linear regression analysis was
performed to determine the associations of RNFL thickness, CNTF and cognitive
impairments.
RESULTS: RNFL was found thinner in patients than in healthy controls (right: 88.18
+/- 25.84 microm vs.102.13 +/- 14.32 microm, p = 0.001; left: 92.84 +/- 13.54 microm
vs.103.71 +/- 11.94 microm, p < 0.001). CNTF was lower in the schizophrenia group
(1755.45 +/- 375.73 pg/ml vs. 1909.99 +/- 368.08 pg/ml, p = 0.001). Decline in RNFL
thickness was found correlated with course of illness and serum CNTF in patients (all
p < 0.05). Similarly, cognitive functions such as immediate memory and visuospatial
functions were also found correlated with decline in RNFL thickness.
CONCLUSION: Decline in RNFL thickness was associated with cognitive
impairments of schizophrenia and CNFT serum concentration. The possibility of
reduction in RNFL thickness as a biomarker for schizophrenia needs to be further
examined.
Copyright ©2020 Liu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full NameLiu, Yanhong, Huang, Lvzhen, Tong, Yongsheng, Chen, Jingxu, Gao, Dongfang,
Yang, Fude
Institution
Liu, Yanhong. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.   Huang, Lvzhen. People's
Hospital of Peking University, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Tong, Yongsheng. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Chen, Jingxu. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Gao, Dongfang. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Yang, Fude. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
57.
  
The Impact of Educational Intervention on the Anxiety of Family Caregivers of the
Elderly with Dementia: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Zarepour A, Hazrati M, Kadivar AA
International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery. 8(3):234-242, 2020
Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32656275
BACKGROUND: Due to the increasing population of elderly and the consequent
increase in the number of chronic diseases such as dementia, the psychological
complications such as anxiety in the family caregivers increase. The aim of this study
was to determine the effect of educational intervention on the anxiety of family
caregivers of the elderly people with dementia.
METHODS: This randomized controlled trial was performed in the elderly Neurology
Clinics in Shiraz from May to August 2017. This study was conducted on 70 families
with elderly people with dementia who were randomly divided into an intervention
(receiving in groups for seven sessions of educational intervention) and a control
group (Conventional care). Data collection tool was Spielberger's Anxiety Inventory
(40-items, score=20-80). Data were analyzed by SPSS version 21 using ANOVA test
with repeated measures and independent t-test.
RESULTS: One and three months after the interventions, the mean scores of anxiety
in the intervention group were 70.51+/-3.78 and 70.31+/-3.43 and in the control
groups they were 76.45+/-3.45 and 76.22+/-5.08 respectively. The results showed
significant differences between the two groups regarding anxiety after the
intervention (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Educational programs held to promote and maintain the physical and
mental health of caregivers could reduce the anxiety of family caregivers of the
elderly with dementia. Trial Registration Number: IRCT2017080915426N4.
Copyright: © International Journal of Community Based Nursing and Midwifery.
Version ID1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarepour, Abdolrahman, Hazrati, Maryam, Kadivar, Ali Akbaar
Institution
Zarepour, Abdolrahman. Student Research Committee,Shiraz University of Medical
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Hazrati, Maryam. Department of Nursing, School of Nursing
and Midwifery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Kadivar, Ali Akbaar. Department of Neurology, school of Medicine, Shiraz University
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
58.
  
Pharmacological treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms of dementia: a network
meta-analysis protocol.
Huang YY, Dou KX, Zhong XL, Shen XN, Chen SD, Li HQ, Chen KL, Cui M, Dong Q,
Tan L, Yu JT
Annals of Translational Medicine. 8(12):746, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32647671
BACKGROUND: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) of dementia are a common
issue in dementia patients which can lead to poor medical and functional outcomes.
Pharmacological interventions are its treatment of choice. However, whether to use
pharmacological treatments in this population and which drug should be preferred
remain controversial. We therefore aimed to compare and rank pharmacological
interventions for NPS according to their efficacy and acceptability profiles by
quantifying information from randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
METHODS: We will include all RCTs reported as double-blind and comparing one
active drug with another or with placebo that compare cholinesterase inhibitors
(ChEIs), N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor modulators, antipsychotics,
antidepressants, and mood stabilisers. Studies will be retrieved by searching
electronic databases, including Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials,
PubMed, MEDLINE, Clinicaltrial.govs, EMBASE, and with no date or language
restrictions. The primary outcomes were efficacy (change in overall symptoms) and
acceptability (all-cause discontinuation). The network meta-analysis (NMA) will be
conducted in R software within a Bayesian framework. The quality of evidence will be
evaluated using the Cochrane risk of bias tool, and the GRADE approach. We will
conduct subgroup analyses to assess the robustness of our findings.
RESULTS: The results of this study will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review will synthesize the available evidence on
the comparative efficacy of different pharmacological approaches in the management
of overall NPS, agitation, psychosis, apathy and depressive symptoms in dementia
patients. The results of the present NMA will influence evidence-based treatment
decisions for clinicians.
Copyright 2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Huang, Yu-Yuan, Dou, Kai-Xin, Zhong, Xiao-Ling, Shen, Xue-Ning, Chen, Shi-Dong,
Li, Hong-Qi, Chen, Ke-Liang, Cui, Mei, Dong, Qiang, Tan, Lan, Yu, Jin-Tai
Institution
Huang, Yu-Yuan. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.   Dou, Kai-
Xin. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University,
Qingdao, China.
Zhong, Xiao-Ling. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Central Hospital, Qingdao
University, Qingdao, China.
Shen, Xue-Ning. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Shi-Dong. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Li, Hong-Qi. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Ke-Liang. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Cui, Mei. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Dong, Qiang. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Tan, Lan. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University,
Qingdao, China.
Yu, Jin-Tai. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
59.
  
New Users of Herbal Medicine Containing Aristolochic Acids and the Risk of
Dementia in the Elderly: A Nationwide, Population-Based Study in Taiwan.
Chiou YE, Chien WC, Chung CH, Chang HA, Kao YC, Tsay PK, Tzeng NS
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1493-1504, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32606702
BACKGROUND: Herbal medicine containing aristolochic acids (HMCAA) was used
for inflammatory and infectious diseases. This study aimed to investigate the
association between the usage of HMCAA and the risk of dementia.
METHODS: A total of 199 new users of HMCAA were enrolled, along with 597
controls without the usage of HMCAA, at a ratio of 1:3 - matched by age, sex, and
comorbidity, between 2000 and 2003 - from the National Health Research Institutes
Database (NHRID) of Taiwan, which contains two million randomly sampled subjects,in this cohort study. We used Fine and Gray's survival analysis (competing with
mortality) to compare the risk of developing dementia during a 15-year follow-up
period (2000-2015).
RESULTS: In general, HMCAA was not significantly associated with dementia
(adjusted subdistribution hazard ratio [SHR] = 0.861, 95% confidence interval [CI] =
0.484-1.532, p = 0.611) for the HMCAA-cohort, although differential risk was
observed among the groups at risk. The patients with usage of HMCAA aged  85
years were associated with a higher risk in dementia (adjusted SHR: 6.243, 95%
CI=1.258-21.084, p = 0.001), in comparison to those aged 50-54 years. Furthermore,
the patients with usage of HMCAA that had cerebrovascular accidents were
associated with an increased risk of dementia.
CONCLUSION: The usage of HMCAA was associated with the risk of developing
dementia in the patients aged  85 years.
Copyright © 2020 Chiou et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Chiou, Yueh-Er; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6832-2386   Chien, Wu-Chien;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3286-0780 
Chung, Chi-Hsiang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4576-9900 
Tsay, Pei-Kwei; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1749-1419 
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5881-7089 
Authors Full Name
Chiou, Yueh-Er, Chien, Wu-Chien, Chung, Chi-Hsiang, Chang, Hsin-An, Kao, Yu-
Chen, Tsay, Pei-Kwei, Tzeng, Nian-Sheng
Institution
Chiou, Yueh-Er. Department of Nursing, College of Medicine, Fu Jen Catholic
University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.   Chiou, Yueh-Er. Graduate Institute of Clinical
Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. Department of Medical Research, Tri-Service General Hospital,
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. School of Public Health, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei,
Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National Defense Medical
Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. Department of Medical Research, Tri-Service General Hospital,
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. School of Public Health, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. Taiwanese Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion Association,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Chang, Hsin-An. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School of
Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chang, Hsin-An. Student Counseling Center, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Kao, Yu-Chen. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School of
Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Kao, Yu-Chen. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, Song-Shan
Branch, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Tsay, Pei-Kwei. Department of Public Health and Center of Biostatistics, College of
Medicine, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan 333, Taiwan.
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School
of Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng. Student Counseling Center, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
60.
  
Validation of the Argentine version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test
(MOCA): A screening tool for Mild Cognitive Impairment and Mild Dementia in
Elderly.
Serrano CM, Sorbara M, Minond A, Finlay JB, Arizaga RL, Iturry M, Martinez P,
Heinemann G, Gagliardi C, Serra A, Magliano FC, Yacovino D, Rojas MMEY, Ruiz
AS, Graviotto HG
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):145-152, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595883
The MoCA is a brief useful test to diagnose mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild
dementia (MD). To date, no Argentine cross-cultural adapted validations of the
Spanish version have been reported.
OBJECTIVE: To validate the MoCA in the elderly and study its usefulness in MCI and
MD.
METHODS: This study included 399 individuals over 60 years old evaluated in the
Cognitive-Behavioral Department (2017-2018). Patients with<3 years of education,
sensory disturbances, psychiatric disorders, or moderate-severe dementia were
excluded. The control group comprised cognitively normal subjects. Participants were
classified according to neuropsychological assessment and clinical standard criteria
into Control, MCI or MD groups. A locally adapted MoCA (MOCA-A) was
administered to the patients and controls.
RESULTS: Mean educational level was 10.34 years (SD 3.5 years). MoCA-A score
differed significantly among groups (p<0.0001). MoCA-A performance correlated with
educational level (r: 0.406 p<0.00001). Adopting a cut-off score >=25 (YI=0.55), the
sensitivity for MCI was 84.8% and for MD 100%, with specificity of 69.7%. When
adding a single point to the score in patients with <=12 years of education, the
specificity of the test reached 81%.
CONCLUSION: The MoCA-A is an accurate reliable screening test for MCI and MD
in Argentina.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Serrano, Cecilia M; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3699-1611   Sorbara,
Marcos; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6668-1895 
Finlay, John B; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3038-1276 
Arizaga, Raul L; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6697-9803 
Iturry, Monica; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8899-5812 
Martinez, Patricia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9879-0378 
Heinemann, Gabriela; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8167-559X 
Gagliardi, Celina; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9672-6118 
Serra, Andrea; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7939-4190 
Magliano, Florencia Ces; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7932-1290 Yacovino, Dario; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5617-2264 
Rojas, Maria Martha Esnaola Y; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6329-5801 
Authors Full Name
Serrano, Cecilia M, Sorbara, Marcos, Minond, Alexander, Finlay, John B, Arizaga,
Raul L, Iturry, Monica, Martinez, Patricia, Heinemann, Gabriela, Gagliardi, Celina,
Serra, Andrea, Magliano, Florencia Ces, Yacovino, Dario, Rojas, Maria Martha
Esnaola Y, Ruiz, Adelaida Susana, Graviotto, Hector Gaston
Institution
Serrano, Cecilia M. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.   Serrano, Cecilia M. Laboratorio de Memoria y
Equilibrio, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Sorbara, Marcos. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Minond, Alexander. Carrera Interdisciplinaria de Especializacion en Neuropsicologia
Clinica, Facultad de Psicologia, UBA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Finlay, John B. Duke University School of Medicine, North Carolina, USA.
Arizaga, Raul L. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar Milstein,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Iturry, Monica. Carrera de Investigador Clinico del Gobierno de la Ciudad de Buenos
Aires, Argentina.
Martinez, Patricia. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Heinemann, Gabriela. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Gagliardi, Celina. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Serra, Andrea. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar Milstein,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Magliano, Florencia Ces. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Yacovino, Dario. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Yacovino, Dario. Laboratorio de Memoria y Equilibrio, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Rojas, Maria Martha Esnaola Y. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr.
Cesar Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Ruiz, Adelaida Susana. Carrera Interdisciplinaria de Especializacion en
Neuropsicologia Clinica, Facultad de Psicologia, UBA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Graviotto, Hector Gaston. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr.
Cesar Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O MoCA e um teste breve e util para diagnosticar comprometimento cognitivo leve
(CCL) e demencia leve. Ate o momento, nenhuma validacao argentina com
adaptacao transcultural da versao em espanhol havia sido relatada.OBJETIVO:
Validar o MoCA em idosos e estudar sua utilidade no CCL e demencia
leve.METODOS: Este estudo incluiu 399 individuos acima de 60 anos avaliados no
departamento cognitivo-comportamental (2017-2018). Foram excluidos pacientes
com menos de 3 anos de escolaridade, com disturbios sensoriais, disturbios
psiquiatricos e demencia moderada a grave. O grupo controle foi cognitivamente
normal. Eles foram classificados de acordo com a avaliacao neuropsicologica e os
criterios clinicos padrao em Controles, MCI e demencia leve. A versao adaptada do
MoCA (MOCA-A) foi administrado aos pacientes e controles.RESULTADOS: Media
de escolaridade: 10,34 anos (DP: 3,5). O escore MoCA-A foi significativamente
diferente entre os grupos (p<0,0001). O MoCA-A correlacionou-se com a
escolaridade (r=0,406 p<0,00001). Com uma pontuacao de corte >=25 (IY=0,55), a
sensibilidade para CCL foi de 84,8% e para demencia leve 100%, com
especificidade de 69,7%. Adicionando um ponto unico a pontuacao em pacientes
com menos de 12 anos de escolaridade, a especificidade do teste atingiu81%.CONCLUSAO: O MoCA-A e um teste de rastreamento preciso e confiavel para
MCI e demencia leve na Argentina.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
61.
  
Cognitive stimulation program in mild cognitive impairment A randomized controlled
trial.
Gomez-Soria I, Peralta-Marrupe P, Plo F
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):110-117, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595879
Non-pharmacological cognitive interventions in mild cognitive impairment have
demonstrated promising results in preventing or delaying cognitive impairment and
functional disability. Cognitive stimulation seems to improve and maintain cognitive
and social activity.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the impact of a cognitive stimulation
program in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at the cognitive level on activities of daily
living (ADLs), and levels of anxiety and depression.
METHODS: A randomized controlled single-blind trial involving 122 non-
institutionalized elderly with a MEC-35 score of 24-27 was conducted. The
intervention group (n=54) received the intervention (10-week cognitive stimulation
program) and was compared with a control group (n=68) that received no
intervention. Follow-up assessments were conducted post-test and at 6 months post-
test. The primary outcome was cognitive function determined by changes in scores
on the Spanish version (MEC-35) of the Mini-Mental State Examination, while the
secondary outcomes were measured by the Barthel Index, Lawton and Brody Scale,
Goldberg Questionnaire (anxiety sub-scale) and the Yesavage Geriatric Depression
Scale (15-item version).
RESULTS: The intervention group showed a significant improvement in cognitive
function at both timepoints, post-test and 6-month follow-up. The Barthel Index was
higher in the intervention group, but only on the post-test analysis. The intervention
did not improve the performance of instrumental ADLs or depression or anxiety
levels.
CONCLUSION: The findings showed cognitive improvements in an elderly population
with MCI in the short and medium-term and improved basic ADLs in the short term.
Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT03831061.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7210-5704 
Authors Full Name
Gomez-Soria, Isabel, Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia, Plo, Fernando
InstitutionGomez-Soria, Isabel. University of Zaragoza Ringgold standard institution Zaragoza,
Aragon, Spain.   Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia. Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital
Ringgold standard institution Barrack Road, Exeter EX2 5DW United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Plo, Fernando. University of Zaragoza Ringgold standard institution Zaragoza,
Aragon, Spain.
Other Abstract
Publisher
As intervencoes cognitivas nao farmacologicas no comprometimento cognitivo leve
demonstram resultados promissores na prevencao ou retardo no comprometimento
cognitivo e na incapacidade funcional. A estimulacao cognitiva parece melhorar e
manter a atividade cognitiva e social.OBJETIVO: Nosso objetivo foi o de avaliar um
programa de estimulacao cognitiva sobre o comprometimento cognitivo leve no nivel
cognitivo, nas atividades da vida diaria, niveis de ansiedade e
depressao.METODOS: Um estudo randomizado, controlado e cego, foi
implementado em 122 idosos nao institucionalizados com escore 24-27 na versao
em espanhol do Mini Exame do Estado Mental (MEC-35). O grupo de intervencao
(n=54) recebeu a intervencao (programa de estimulacao cognitiva de 10 semanas) e
foi comparado com um grupo de controle (n=68) que nao recebeu nenhuma
intervencao. Avaliacoes de acompanhamento foram realizadas pos-teste e 6 meses
pos-teste. O desfecho primario foi a funcao cognitiva determinada pelas alteracoes
nos escores do MEC-35 e os desfechos secundarios foram medidos pelo Indice de
Barthel, Escala de Lawton e Brody, Escala de Lawton e Brody, Questionario
Goldberg (subescala de ansiedade) ) e a Escala de Depressao Geriatrica de
Yesavage (versao de 15 itens).RESULTADOS: O grupo intervencao apresentou uma
melhora significativa na funcao cognitiva nas duas medidas de tempo, pos-teste e 6
meses de acompanhamento. O Indice de Barthel foi encontrado mais alto no grupo
de intervencao, mas apenas na analise pos-teste. A intervencao nao melhorou o
desempenho de atividades instrumentais da vida diaria e niveis de depressao ou
ansiedade.CONCLUSAO: Os achados mostram melhorias cognitivas no
comprometimento cognitivo leve da populacao idosa em curto e medio prazo e
melhoraram as atividades basicas da vida diaria em curto prazo. Identificador do
Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT03831061.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
62.
  
Action observation combined with gait training to improve gait and cognition in elderly
with mild cognitive impairment A randomized controlled trial.
Rojasavastera R, Bovonsunthonchai S, Hiengkaew V, Senanarong V
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):118-127, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595880
Owing to advancement of medical technology and current knowledge, the population
has a longer life expectancy, leading to an increase in the proportion of elderly.
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to investigate the effect of action observation (AO)combined with gait training on gait and cognition in elderly with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI).
METHODS: Thirty-three participants were randomly allocated to action observation
with gait training (AOGT), gait training (GT), and control (CT) groups. The AOGT and
GT groups received a program of observation and gait training protocol with the
same total duration of 65 min for 12 sessions. For the observation, the AGOT group
watched a video of normal gait movement, while the GT group watched an abstract
picture and the CT group received no training program. All participants were
assessed for gait parameters during single- and dual-tasks using an electronic gait
mat system and were assessed for cognitive level using the Montreal Cognitive
Assessment (MoCA) at baseline, after training and at 1-month follow-up.
RESULTS: The results showed that the AOGT group had significant improvements in
gait speeds during single- and dual-tasks, as well as better MoCA score, while the
GT group had significant improvement only in gait speed.
CONCLUSION: The adjunct treatment of AO with gait training provides greater
benefits for both gait and cognitive performances in elderly with MCI.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1044-3174
Hiengkaew, Vimonwan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0842-6976 
Senanarong, Vorapun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2774-4187 
Authors Full Name
Rojasavastera, Rommanee, Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee, Hiengkaew, Vimonwan,
Senanarong, Vorapun
Institution
Rojasavastera, Rommanee. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.   Rojasavastera, Rommanee. Gait and Balance Group, Faculty of
Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee. Gait and Balance Group, Faculty of Physical Therapy,
Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
Hiengkaew, Vimonwan. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.
Senanarong, Vorapun. Division of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital,
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Com o avanco da tecnologia medica e do conhecimento atual, a populacao tem uma
expectativa de vida mais longa, levando a um aumento na proporcao de
idosos.OBJETIVO: O estudo teve como objetivo investigar o efeito da observacao de
acao (AO) combinada com o treinamento da marcha na marcha e cognicao em
idosos com comprometimento cognitivo leve (CCL).METODOS: Trinta e tres
participantes foram alocados aleatoriamente para observacao de acao com grupos
de treinamento de marcha (AOGT), treinamento de marcha (GT) e controle (CT). Os
grupos AOGT e GT receberam um programa de observacao e protocolo de
treinamento de marcha com a mesma duracao total de 65 minutos por 12 sessoes.
Na observacao, o grupo AGOT assistiu a um video de movimento normal da marcha,
enquanto o grupo GT assistiu a uma figura abstrata e o grupo CT nao recebeu
nenhum programa de treinamento. Todos os participantes foram avaliados quanto
aos parametros da marcha durante tarefas simples e duplas, utilizando um sistema
eletronico de esteira da marcha e avaliados quanto ao nivel cognitivo, utilizando a
Avaliacao Cognitiva de Montreal (MoCA) na linha de base, apos o treinamento e 1
mes de acompanhamento.RESULTADOS: Os resultados mostraram que o grupo
AOGT apresentou melhorias significativas nas velocidades da marcha durantetarefas simples e duplas, alem do escore MoCA, enquanto o grupo GT teve melhora
significativa apenas na velocidade da marcha.CONCLUSAO: O tratamento adjunto
da AO com o treinamento da marcha proporciona maiores beneficios tanto do
desempenho da marcha quanto do desempenho cognitivo em idosos com CCL.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
63.
  
Investigation of Aneusomy of Chromosome 21 in the Micronuclei of 13 Patients with
Early Onset Alzheimer's Disease Using Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization: A Pilot
Study.
Biglari S, Kamali K, Banihashemi S, Faal Sezavari A, Aghajanpour-Mir SM, Behjati F
Reports of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology. 8(4):446-453, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32582804
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative
and dementia disorders in people between the ages of 30 and 65. When symptoms
appear in this age group, the disease is referred to as early-onset Alzheimer's
disease (EOAD). Unfortunately, the symptoms are progressive and no current
treatments are effective.
METHODS: In this research, 13 patients, aged 37 to 65 years with symptoms of
early-onset Alzheimer's disease, were studied. First, patient lymphocytes were
isolated and cultured in RPMI 1640 medium using a special micronucleus (MN)
culture method. Next, the lymphocytes were harvested and prepared on slides. The
slides were then examined by fluorescent microscopy using a unique FISH protocol
specific for MNs. The patients were divided into groups aged 30-39, 40-49, and 50-
65.
RESULTS: We found that 19.76% of the MNs from our EOAD patients originated in
chromosome 21. Micronuclei originated in chromosome 21 in 21.20 and 16.52% of
patients without and with family histories of Alzheimer's, respectively. This difference
was not significant. Also, the percentage of micronuclei originating in chromosome 21
was not dependent on the patient age at the time of the study, or symptom onset age
or duration.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that the rate of micronuclei with the origin of
chromosome 21 is high in these patients. However, the micronucleus increased has
no significant relationship with age and duration of disease or family history of it.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Biglari, Sajjad, Kamali, Koorosh, Banihashemi, Sousan, Faal Sezavari, Arash,
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen, Behjati, Farkhondeh
Institution
Biglari, Sajjad. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Kamali, Koorosh. Department of PublicHealth, School of Public Health, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences.
Banihashemi, Sousan. Department of Public Health, School of Public Health, Zanjan
University of Medical Sciences.
Faal Sezavari, Arash. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen. Genetics Research Center, University of Social
Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen. Cellular & Molecular Biology Research Center,
Health Institute, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
Behjati, Farkhondeh. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
64.
  
Sleep Quality and its various correlates: A community-based study among geriatric
population in a community development block of Purba Bardhaman district, West
Bengal.
Das S, Roy RN, Das DK, Chakraborty A, Mondal R
Journal of Family Medicine & Primary Care. 9(3):1510-1516, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32509641
BACKGROUND: In the elderly population, sleep problems are prevalent and have
known to be associated with many factors. There are many adverse consequences
of decreased sleep such as heart disease, diabetes, depression, accidents, impaired
cognition, and poor quality of life. Correlates of poor sleep quality have not been well
explored in Indian research.
OBJECTIVES: The present study aimed to measure prevalence of poor sleep quality
among elderly and its association with different factors.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted during June-November 2018 in a
randomly selected block of Purba Bardhaman district. Cluster random sampling was
applied to select required sample of 180 elderly people (>=60 years) from 30 villages.
Study tools used were Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), 5-Item Geriatric
Depression Scale (GDS), Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7), Global
Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ), and a pretested schedule for
sociodemographic and other variables. The study had approval from Institutional
Ethics Committee. Chi-square tests and multivariable logistic regression were
performed using SPSS V16.
RESULTS: Prevalence of poor sleep quality (GPSQI >=5) was 68.89%. Median
Global PSQI (GPSQI) score was 7.00 (4.00-11.00). Multivariable logistic regression
revealed that marital status, vital events in past one month, anxiety status, and
depression were significantly associated with sleep quality. Those who were
unmarried/widowed, having vital events in past one month in the family, and severe
anxiety and depression were having significantly higher odds of developing poor
sleep quality.
CONCLUSION: Poor sleep quality is high among elderly and measures toward the
significant correlates are thus emphasized.Copyright: © 2020 Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Das, Soumyaneel, Roy, Rabindra Nath, Das, Dilip Kumar, Chakraborty, Amitava,
Mondal, Raston
Institution
Das, Soumyaneel. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.   Roy, Rabindra Nath.
Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College, Burdwan, Purba
Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Das, Dilip Kumar. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Chakraborty, Amitava. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical
College, Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Mondal, Raston. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
65.
  
Knowledge regarding Alzheimer's Disease among College Students of Kathmandu,
Nepal.
Baral K, Dahal M, Pradhan S
International journal of Alzheimer's disease. 2020:6173217, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32494366
INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's, a neurodegenerative disease, is becoming a growing
burden and the leading cause of disability among older people, and there is no cure
for it. It is set to be the biggest killer among the growing elderly population. The aim
of this study was to assess the knowledge of Alzheimer's disease among college
students in Kathmandu metropolitan city.
METHODS: This was a descriptive cross-sectional study among 385 randomly
selected bachelor students of Kathmandu metropolitan city. The questionnaire
included 2 sections. Section I addressed the sociodemographic characteristics of the
participants. Section II addressed or covered the Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge
Scale (ADKS) test. ADKS contains a set of 30 items, with true and false options. 1
point was given for the correct answer and 0 for the incorrect answer. The final sum
was then the total score of the participant. Frequency, percentage, mean, and
standard deviation were calculated, and the chi-square test was used to measure the
association between two categorical variables.
RESULTS: The mean ADKS (Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale) score is 15.45
+/- 2.95 with the lowest and highest mean total scores of 8 and 26, respectively.
49.5% of the respondents scored above the mean. The number of male and female
respondents who scored above the mean is 68 and 95, respectively, with p value0.71 and odds ratio 0.922. There is no association between gender and knowledge
level. Gender seemed to have no effect on the knowledge about Alzheimer's disease
on the basis of the Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale (ADKS). However, science
students had comparatively better knowledge about disease than management
students. The mean score of science and management is 15.9 and 15.04,
respectively, with p value 0.004. There is association between knowledge score and
faculty.
CONCLUSION: This study concluded that the knowledge level of college students on
Alzheimer's disease is below moderate. The findings concluded that there is
association between faculty and knowledge score.
Copyright © 2020 Kushalata Baral et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Dahal, Maginsh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1873-7601 
Authors Full Name
Baral, Kushalata, Dahal, Maginsh, Pradhan, Shneha
Institution
Baral, Kushalata. Department of Public Health, Nobel College, Pokhara University,
Nepal.   Dahal, Maginsh. Department of Public Health, Asian College for Advance
Studies, Purbanchal University, Nepal.
Pradhan, Shneha. Department of Public Health, Nobel College, Pokhara University,
Nepal.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
66.
  
Protein Kinase Ce in the Platelet and Hippocampal Tissue as a Diagnostic Biological
Marker in Alzheimer Disease.
Amiri S, Azadmanesh K, Dehghan Shasaltaneh M, Khoshkholgh-Sima B, Naghdi N
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 10(6):545-556, 2019 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32477472
INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder
characterized by the progressive loss of memory and other cognitive functions.
Protein Kinase Ce (PKCe) is an isoform that most effectively suppresses Amyloid
Beta (Abeta) production and synaptic loss.
METHODS: In this study, spatial learning and memory for treated rats were
evaluated by the Morris water maze test. The activity (total PKC), mRNA expression,
and protein level of PKCe in the platelet and hippocampal tissue were evaluated
using immunosorbent assay, real-time qPCR, and western blotting analysis,
respectively.
RESULTS: The traveled distance was significantly prolonged, and escape latency
significantly increased in Abeta-treated groups. PKC activity assay showed that there
was a remarkable difference between the Abeta-treated and sham-operated groupson days 10 and 30 in the hippocampus and also day 30 in platelet after the injection
of Abeta. A significant effect in PKC activity was observed between days 0 and 10,
days 0 and 30, as well as days 5 and 30. Abeta significantly downregulated the
PKCe mRNA expression in the hippocampus of rats on day 30; however, no
significant difference was observed in platelet. Western blot analysis demonstrated
that Abeta significantly reduced PKCe protein expression in the hippocampus of
treated groups on day 30.
CONCLUSION: The expression level of PKCe was downregulated following the
injection of Abeta in the hippocampus, but no significant difference was observed
between the AD and sham groups in platelet that may be due to the low
concentration of PKCe or duration of Abeta exposure in the rat brain.
Copyright© 2019 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Amiri, Sara; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2851-1219   Azadmanesh, Kayhan;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7165-9043 
Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1425-7347 
Khoshkholgh-Sima, Baharak; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6262-0462 
Naghdi, Nasser; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3315-372X 
Authors Full Name
Amiri, Sara, Azadmanesh, Kayhan, Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh, Khoshkholgh-
Sima, Baharak, Naghdi, Nasser
Institution
Amiri, Sara. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur Institute of Iran,
Tehran, Iran.   Azadmanesh, Kayhan. Department of Virology, Pasteur Institute of
Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh. Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences,
University of Zanjan, Zanjan, Iran.
Khoshkholgh-Sima, Baharak. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Naghdi, Nasser. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur Institute of
Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
67.
  
Ceftriaxone improves senile neurocognition damages induced by D-galactose in
mice.
Hakimizadeh E, Kaeidi A, Taghipour Z, Mehrzadi S, Allahtavakoli M, Shamsizadeh A,
Bazmandegan G, Hassanshahi J, Aflatoonian MR, Fatemi I
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(3):368-375, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32440324
OBJECTIVES: Ceftriaxone (Cef), a beta-lactam antibiotic, is accompanied byantioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. It has been shown that Cef has
beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease. In the current investigation, the effect of
Cef in a mice model of aging was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty male mice were equally aliquoted into four
groups as follows: Control (as healthy normal animals), D-galactose (DG) group
(treated with 500 mg/kg/day DG for 6 weeks), DG + Cef group (treated with DG plus
Cef 200 mg/kg/day for 6 weeks), and Cef group (treated with Cef 200 mg/kg/day for 6
weeks). A battery of behavioral tests was done to evaluate age-related
neurocognitive changes. The activities of catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase
(GPx), and superoxide dismutase (SOD), as well as the level of malondialdehyde
(MDA) in the brain, were measured by biochemical methods. Also, to determine the
brain damage, histopathological alterations in the hippocampus were measured
using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that neurobehavioral dysfunctions of DG can be
prevented by co-administration of Cef. We also found that Cef increases the activity
of SOD, GPx, and CAT as well as decreasing the level of MDA in the brain of aged
mice.
CONCLUSION: Based on our findings, Cef declines neurocognitive dysfunctions in
the DG-induced model of aging, possibly through its antioxidative properties.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Hakimizadeh, Elham, Kaeidi, Ayat, Taghipour, Zahra, Mehrzadi, Saeed,
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad, Shamsizadeh, Ali, Bazmandegan, Gholamreza,
Hassanshahi, Jalal, Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza, Fatemi, Iman
Institution
Hakimizadeh, Elham. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.   Kaeidi, Ayat. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.
Kaeidi, Ayat. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Taghipour, Zahra. Department of Anatomy, Rafsanjan University of Medical
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Mehrzadi, Saeed. Razi Drug Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research
Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences,
Rafsanjan, Iran.
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of
Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Shamsizadeh, Ali. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute of
Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Shamsizadeh, Ali. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Bazmandegan, Gholamreza. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research
Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences,
Rafsanjan, Iran.
Bazmandegan, Gholamreza. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School
of Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Hassanshahi, Jalal. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.
Hassanshahi, Jalal. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of
Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza. Research Center for Tropical and Infectious
Diseases, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Fatemi, Iman. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute of
Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Fatemi, Iman. Research Center for Tropical and Infectious Diseases, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
68.
  
Tualang honey supplementation as cognitive enhancer in patients with
schizophrenia.
Yahaya R, Zahary MN, Othman Z, Ismail R, Nik Him NAS, Abd Aziz A, Dahlan R,
Jusoh AF
Heliyon. 6(5):e03948, 2020 May.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32426546
INTRODUCTION: Schizophrenia is a chronic mental illness with clusters of
symptoms, including cognitive impairment. This study aimed to explore the effect of
Tualang Honey (TH) on cognitive domains, especially as it pertained to the verbal
memory of schizophrenia patients.
METHOD: This was a cross-sectional study involved 80 individuals, diagnosed with
schizophrenia. The Malay Version Auditory Verbal Learning Test (MVAVLT) was
used. Data were analysed using SPSS 20.0 software. Intention to treat analysis was
applied.
RESULT: A comparison of the total learning score at eight weeks between the two
groups based on time effect and time-treatment interaction favoured TH group.
CONCLUSION: This study concludes that by supplementing schizophrenia patients
with 8-week of TH did improve total learning performance across domains in the
immediate memory among patients with schizophrenia.
Copyright © 2020 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yahaya, Rosliza, Zahary, Mohd Nizam, Othman, Zahiruddin, Ismail, Rusli, Nik Him,
Nik Ahmad Shaiffudin, Abd Aziz, Aniza, Dahlan, Rahima, Jusoh, Azizul Fadzli
Institution
Yahaya, Rosliza. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Zahary, Mohd Nizam. Faculty of Health Sciences, Gong Badak Campus, Universiti
Sultan Zainal Abidin, 21300 Kuala Nerus, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Othman, Zahiruddin. School of Medical Sciences, Health Campus, Universiti Sains
Malaysia, 16150 Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia.
Ismail, Rusli. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin,
Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.Nik Him, Nik Ahmad Shaiffudin. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti
Sultan Zainal Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu,
Malaysia.
Abd Aziz, Aniza. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Dahlan, Rahima. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
Jusoh, Azizul Fadzli. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
69.
  
Effect of donepezil and memantine on improvement of cognitive function in patients
with temporal lobe epilepsy.
Oustad M, Najafi M, Mehvari J, Rastgoo A, Mortazavi Z, Rahiminejad M
Journal of Research in Medical Sciences. 25:29, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32419786
BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is a common complication of patients with
temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare the
effects of donepezil and memantine on improving the cognitive function of patients
with TLE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a clinical trial study, 70 patients with TLE were
divided into two groups of 35 each: 10 mg doses of donepezil (first group) and
memantine (second group) were applied for 16 weeks. The level of cognitive function
of patients in both groups before and after treatment was determined using Montreal
Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test.
RESULTS: The mean score of MoCA before and after intervention was 23.55 +/-
3.67 and 26.09 +/- 2.5, respectively, in the group treated with memantine, and the
mean score of intervention was significantly improved (P < 0.001). In the group
treated with donepezil, the score before and after the operation was 23.87 +/- 3.18
and 24.35 +/- 2.17, respectively, and no significant difference was observed in this
group (P = 0.38).
CONCLUSION: Hence, memantine was better than donepezil in the improvement of
cognitive impairment in patients with TLE.
Copyright: © 2020 Journal of Research in Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Oustad, Marjan, Najafi, Mohamadreza, Mehvari, Jafar, Rastgoo, Amin, Mortazavi,
Zahrasadat, Rahiminejad, Mitra
Institution
Oustad, Marjan. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.   Najafi, Mohamadreza. Department of Neurology,Medical School, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Mehvari, Jafar. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Rastgoo, Amin. Neurosurgeon, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Kangan, Bushehr
University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.
Mortazavi, Zahrasadat. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Rahiminejad, Mitra. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
70.
  
Experience of Intensive Care Nurses in Assessment of Postoperative Pain in
Patients with Hip Fracture and Dementia.
Krupic F, Grbic K, Senorski EH, Lepara O, Fatahi N, Svantesson E
Materia Sociomedica. 32(1):50-56, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32410892
INTRODUCTION: Patients with hip fracture are one of the most demanding groups in
the health-care system. One of the most important tasks for nurses is to assess pain
and ensure the patients are pain free. Pain assessment in patients with dementia is a
well-known challenge for health-care professionals due to the patients' difficulties in
verbalising pain problems.
AIM: The aim of this study was to explore the experience of intensive care nurses in
assessment of pain in patients with hip fracture and dementia in the postoperative
setting.
METHODS: Data were collected through five focus group discussions using open-
ended questions and qualitative content analysis. Twenty-one intensive care nurses
(6 men and 15 women) participated in the focus group interviews.
RESULTS: Analysis of the data resulted in three main categories: "Communication",
"Visual assessment of pain", and "Practical issues" including a number of
subcategories. Some of the factors which influence assessment of pain in patients
with dementia are the lack of information and knowledge about the patients, which
causes loss of time and increased stress. The different forms of communication and
ways of assessing pain in these patients were other factors mentioned by nurses as
hindrances regarding assessment of the pain.
CONCLUSION: In order to improve assessment of pain, more knowledge and
information about the patients are needed and better coordination between the pre-
and postoperative departments regarding these patients. In this context, different
intervention studies on patient's hip fracture and dementia are needed to increase
knowledge and awareness regarding this group of patients.
Copyright © 2020 Ferid Krupic, Kemal Grbic, Eric Hamrin Senorski, Orhan Lepara,
Nabi Fatahi, Eleonor Svantesson.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Krupic, Ferid, Grbic, Kemal, Senorski, Eric Hamrin, Lepara, Orhan, Fatahi, Nabi,
Svantesson, Eleonor
Institution
Krupic, Ferid. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.   Krupic,
Ferid. Department of Anesthesiology. Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska
Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Grbic, Kemal. Clinical of Thoracic Surgery, University Clinical Center Sarajevo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Senorski, Eric Hamrin. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Lepara, Orhan. Department of Human Physiology, Shool of Medicine, University of
Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Fatahi, Nabi. Department of Learning and Ledarship for Health care Professionals,
Sahlgrenska Akademin at University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Svantesson, Eleonor. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
71.
  
Vitamin E therapy prevents the accumulation of congophilic amyloid plaques and
neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus in a rat model of Alzheimer's disease.
Jahanshahi M, Nikmahzar E, Sayyahi A
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(1):86-92, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32395206
OBJECTIVES: Vitamin E may have beneficial effects on oxidative stress and Abeta-
associated reactive oxygen species production in Alzheimer's disease. But, the exact
role of vitamin E as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis still needs to
be studied. Hence, we examined the therapeutic effects of vitamin E on the density of
congophilic amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in rats' hippocampi.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Wistar rats were randomly assigned to control (no
drug treatment), sham scopolamine (3 mg/kg)+saline and Sham
scopolamine+sesame oil groups, and three experimental groups that received
scopolamine+vitamin E (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day) daily for 14 days after
scopolamine injection. The rats' brains were collected immediately following
transcardial perfusion and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde. Pathological brain
alterations were monitored through Congo red and bielschowsky silver staining.
RESULTS: Scopolamine treatment led to a significant increase in the density of
congophilic amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus. IP
injection of vitamin E in three doses (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day) significantly
reversed the scopolamine-induced increase of the congophilic amyloid plaque
density and density of neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus. Although vitamin E
(25 and 50 mg/kg/day) doses were also effective, but a 100 mg/kg/day dose ofvitamin E was more effective in the reduction of congophilic amyloid plaque and
neurofibrillary tangle density.
CONCLUSION: Vitamin E could exert a therapeutic effect in the reduction of
congophilic amyloid plaque and neurofibrillary tangle density in the hippocampus of
scopolamine-treated rats and it is useful for Alzheimer's disease.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jahanshahi, Mehrdad, Nikmahzar, Emsehgol, Sayyahi, Ali
Institution
Jahanshahi, Mehrdad. Neuroscience Research Center, Department of Anatomy,
Faculty of Medicine, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Nikmahzar, Emsehgol. Neuroscience Research Center, Golestan University of
Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Sayyahi, Ali. Neuroscience Research Center, Golestan University of Medical
Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
72.
  
The Relationship between Polyneuropathy and Cognitive Functions in Type 2
Diabetes Mellitus Patients.
Timer SM, Timer E, Yukselen NP, Gokyigit MC
Sisli Etfal Hastanesi Tp Bulteni. 54(1):41-46, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32377132
OBJECTIVES: Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a risk factor for mild cognitive
impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. However, it is not
known which pathophysiological mechanisms lead to impairment in cognitive
functions in Type 2 DM. This study aims to compare the cognitive functions of
diabetic patients with and without polyneuropathy using standardized Mini-Mental
Test (MMSE) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale (MoCA) and to assess
whether the presence of polyneuropathy is a predictive factor for the development of
cognitive impairment.
METHODS: Patients with DM who underwent our EMG laboratory for polyneuropathy
between January 2014 and January 2015 were included in this study. Patients who
underwent electrophysiological examinations were evaluated for polyneuropathy.
Patients with polyneuropathy were classified as a patient group and other patients as
a control group. In all cases, MMSE and MoCA were administered. The demographic
data and educational status of the patients were recorded. Hypertension, coronary
artery disease, smoking and alcohol use were questioned. Their complaints, duration
of illness and the treatment they were receiving were questioned. Glycosylated
hemoglobin (HBA1C) values in the last three months and physical examination
findings of patients were recorded. Patients with and without polyneuropathy were
compared with statistical methods.RESULTS: Polyneuropathy was detected in 34 (42%) of the 81 patients who
participated in our study. The age, disease duration and HBA1C levels were
statistically higher in the polyneuropathy group than in the control group (p=0.024,
p=0.000, p=0.016). However, there was no statistically significant difference between
MMSE and MoCA scores of these groups. In both groups, there were no patients
scoring below the MMSE cut-off value of 24. Seventeen of the 34 patients (50%) in
the polyneuropathic group and 19 (40,4%) of the 47 patients in the control group had
scores below the MoCA cut-off value 21. However, there was no statistically
significant difference between the two groups. We also found that the mean MoCA
value of all DM patients was 21, which was the MoCA cut-off value. Also, factors
affecting cognitive functions in all Type 2 DM patients were evaluated by logistic
regression analysis, and it was found that duration of education was an independent
factor affecting cognitive impairment (OR=8.167; p=0.001).
CONCLUSION: In our study, we did not observe significant differences between
MMSE and MoCA scores of Type 2 DM patients with and without polyneuropathy.
However, the cross-sectional nature of our study makes it impossible to comment on
this issue. To clarify whether the presence of polyneuropathy is a predictive factor in
the development of cognitive impairment in Type 2 DM, there is a need for a larger
sample group and long-term follow-up studies. It has also been shown that patients
with Type 2 DM may have low scores according to the MOBID cut-off value even
though peripheral neurologic involvement findings are not observed. In the Type 2
DM population, it has also been shown that MoCA may be affected by education
level.
Copyright: © 2020 by The Medical Bulletin of Sisli Etfal Hospital.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Timer, Sibel Mumcu, Timer, Emin, Yukselen, Nihan Parasiz, Gokyigit, Munevver
Celik
Institution
Timer, Sibel Mumcu. Department of Neurology, Health Sciences University, Bagcilar
Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.   Timer, Emin. Department of
Neurophysiology, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.
Yukselen, Nihan Parasiz. Department of Neurology, University of Health Sciences,
Fatih Sultan Mehmet Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.
Gokyigit, Munevver Celik. Department of Electroneurophysiology, Beykent University
Vocational High School, Istanbul, Turkey.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
73.
  
Irisin protects the substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons in the rat model of
Parkinson's disease.
Zarbakhsh S, Safari M, Aldaghi MR, Sameni HR, Ghahari L, Khaleghi Lagmouj Y,
Rahimi Jaberi K, Parsaie HIranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 22(7):722-728, 2019 Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32373292
OBJECTIVES: Exercise ameliorates the quality of life and reduces the risk of
neurological derangements such as Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD).
Irisin is a product of the physical activity and is a circulating hormone that regulates
the energy metabolism in the body. In the nervous system, Irisin influences
neurogenesis and neural differentiation in mice. We previously demonstrated that co-
treatment of bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs) with a neurotrophic factor reduce
Parkinson's symptoms. Our goal in this project was to evaluate whether Irisin with
BMSCs can protect the dopaminergic (DA) neurons in PD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 35 adult male Wistar rat weighing (200-250 g) were
chosen. They were separated into five experimental groups (n=7). To create a
Parkinson's model, intranasal (IN) administration of the MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-
1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) was used. The BMSCs (2x106) and Irisin (50 nm/ml) was
used for 7 days for treatment after creation of the PD model. After completion of the
tests (4 weeks), their brains were used for the TUNEL and immunohistochemical
(IHC) assays.
RESULTS: One of the important results of this study was that the Irisin induce
BMSCs transport into the injured area of the brain. Co-treatment of the Irisin with
BMSCs increased tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons (TH+) in substantia nigra
(SN) and striatum of the PD mice brain. In this group, the number of TUNEL-positive
cells significantly decreased. Behavioral symptoms were better in the combination
group and Irisin simultaneously.
CONCLUSION: Co- treatment of Irisin with BMSCs protects the DA neurons from
degeneration and apoptotic process after MPTP injection.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarbakhsh, Sam, Safari, Manouchehr, Aldaghi, Mohammad Reza, Sameni, Hamid
Reza, Ghahari, Laya, Khaleghi Lagmouj, Younes, Rahimi Jaberi, Khojasteh, Parsaie,
Houman
Institution
Zarbakhsh, Sam. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.   Safari,
Manouchehr. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Aldaghi, Mohammad Reza. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Sameni, Hamid Reza. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department
of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Ghahari, Laya. Department of Anatomy, AJA University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.
Khaleghi Lagmouj, Younes. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Rahimi Jaberi, Khojasteh. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Parsaie, Houman. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
74.
  
Magnesium Increases the Protective Effect of Citicoline on Aluminum Chloride-
induced Cognitive Impairment.
Hosseini-Sharifabad A, Rabbani M, Seyed-Yousefi Y, Safavi M
Clinical Psychopharmacology & Neuroscience. 18(2):241-248, 2020 May 31.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32329305
OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer's disease is a popular neurodegenerative disorder which is
growing in the elderly people. Exposure to environmental pollutant like aluminum
could trigger or accelerate its involved mechanisms like tau phosphorylation. The
current study will evaluate the effect of alone or co-administration of Citicoline or/and
magnesium on the aluminum chloride induced memory impairment.
METHODS: Male albino mice were randomly divided into different groups (n = 7).
Memory impairment was induced via orally administration of 300 mg/kg Aluminum
Chloride for 28 days. Based on respective group, animals received 100, 250, 500
mg/kg of Citicoline or 50, 100, 150 mg/kg of Magnesium sulfate (MgSO4),
intraperitoneally. In co-administration, 50 mg/kg of MgSO4 injected concomitantly
with 100, 250, or 500 mg/kg of Citicoline. Rivastigmine (2 mg/kg intraperitoneally)
was used as a positive control. Memory was evaluated using the Object Recognition
Task (ORT) and Passive Avoidance Test (PAT).
RESULTS: The studied doses of Citicoline or MgSO4 when administered individually
showed significant increase in the discrimination index in ORT and latency time in the
PAT compared to the Aluminium chloride (AlCl3) treated group. Concomitant
injection of 50 mg/kg MgSO4 with the different doses of Citicoline strongly increased
the above indices values in comparison to each alone.
CONCLUSION: The findings show, individual administration of Citicoline or MgSO4
inverted the AlCl3-induced memory impairment in a dose independent manner. The
addition of MgSO4 to the Citicoline showed a synergistic effect in the PAT and likely
additive effect in the ORT.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8483-5560   Rabbani,
Mohammad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5457-7185 
Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3765-7001 
Safavi, Maryam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1356-0424 
Authors Full Name
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali, Rabbani, Mohammad, Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman, Safavi,
Maryam
Institution
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.   Rabbani,
Mohammad. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.Safavi, Maryam. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
75.
  
Experimental Effects of Acute High-Intensity Resistance Exercise on Episodic
Memory Function: Consideration for Post-Exercise Recovery Period.
Loprinzi PD, Green D, Wages S, Cheke LG, Jones T
Journal of Lifestyle Medicine. 10(1):7-20, 2020 Jan 31.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32328444
BACKGROUND: The present experiments evaluated the effects of acute high-
intensity resistance exercise on episodic memory.
METHODS: Two experiments were conducted. For Experiment 1, participants (N =
40; Mage = 21.0 years) were randomized into one of two groups, including an
experimental exercise group and a control group (seated for 20 min). The
experimental group engaged in an acute bout of resistance exercises (circuit style
exercises) for 15 minutes, followed by a 5-min recovery period. Memory function was
subsequently assessed using a multiple trial (immediate and delay), word-list
episodic memory task (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, RAVLT), and then
followed by a comprehensive, computerized assessment of episodic memory
(Treasure Hunt task, THT). The THT involved a spatio-temporal assessment of what,
where, and when components of episodic memory. Experiment 2 evaluated if altering
the recovery period would influence the potential negative effects of high-intensity
resistance exercise on episodic memory function. For Experiment 2, participants (N =
51) were randomized into the same acute resistance exercise protocol but either with
a 10-min recovery period, 20-min recovery period, or a control group.
RESULTS: For Experiment 1, for RAVLT, the exercise group performed worse
(Fgroup x time = 3.7, p = .001, eta 2p = .09). Across nearly all THT outcomes, the
exercise group had worse spatio-temporal memory than the control group. These
results suggest that high-intensity resistance exercise (with a 5-min recovery) may
have a detrimental effect on episodic memory function. For Experiment 2, for RAVLT,
the exercise with 10-min recovery group performed better (Fgroup x time = 3.1, p =
.04, eta 2p = .11). Unlike Experiment 1, exercise did not impair spatio-temporal
memory, with the 20-min exercise recovery group having the best "where"
component of episodic memory.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, the results from these two experiments suggest that
acute high-intensity resistance exercise may impair episodic memory when a short
exercise recovery period (e.g., 5-min) is employed, but with a longer recovery period
(10+ min), acute high-intensity resistance exercise may, potentially, enhance
episodic memory.
Copyright © 2020 Journal of Lifestyle Medicine.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Loprinzi, Paul D, Green, David, Wages, Shelby, Cheke, Lucy G, Jones, Timothy
Institution
Loprinzi, Paul D. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.   Green, David. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Wages, Shelby. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Cheke, Lucy G. Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
UK.
Jones, Timothy. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
76.
  
Prevalence of psychiatric disorders among older adults in Jodhpur and stakeholders
perspective on responsive health system.
Patel M, Bhardwaj P, Nebhinani N, Goel AD, Patel K
Journal of Family Medicine & Primary Care. 9(2):714-720, 2020 Feb.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32318408
BACKGROUND: Ageing is an inescapable reality of human existence. The elderly
population of India is steadily increasing with growing mental health needs which
pose many challenges for the health care system. The aim of this study is to assess
anxiety, depression, and cognitive disorders among urban and rural elderly and to
explore the availability of social support mechanisms and a responsive health system
for elderly.
METHODS: This study is a mixed-method approach. For a quantitative study, a
community-based cross-sectional survey is conducted in Jodhpur, Rajasthan. A total
of 330 elderly persons aged 60 years and above are randomly screened for
depression (GDS), anxiety (GAD), and cognitive impairment (HMSE). Further for a
qualitative study, in-depth interviews are conducted with 7 key informants including
policy and program managers, service providers, and facilitators from the state. For
quantitative data analysis, Excel and SPSS are used and for Qualitative data
analysis, Thematic Framework Approach is used.
RESULTS: The mean age of the respondents is 67.9 +/- 7.8. The prevalence of
severe depression is 17%, severe anxiety is 10.3%, and cognitive impairment is
51.2%. The prevalence of all the three is more in rural elderly as compared to urban
elderly as well as more in female individuals as compared to males. Qualitative
analysis revealed that there are challenges in early identification of mental disorders
at both the levels: service providers and elderly. Psychological and financial issuesare also seen in elderly who are not supported by their children. There are cases of
fear for elder abuse and influence of western culture in the society.
CONCLUSION: There is a sizeable prevalence of psychological issues in elderly
population. Therefore, there is a need to adopt holistic and integrated psychogeriatric
services for the improvement of quality of life in elderly.
Copyright: © Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Patel, Mamta, Bhardwaj, Pankaj, Nebhinani, Naresh, Goel, Akhil Dhanesh, Patel,
Kamlesh
Institution
Patel, Mamta. School of Public Health, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.   Bhardwaj,
Pankaj. School of Public Health, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Bhardwaj, Pankaj. Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, AIIMS,
Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Nebhinani, Naresh. Department of Psychiatry, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Goel, Akhil Dhanesh. Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine,
AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Patel, Kamlesh. S.N Medical College, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
77.
  
Screening for Cognitive Frailty Using Short Cognitive Screening Instruments:
Comparison of the Chinese Versions of the MoCA and Qmci Screen.
Xu Y, Lin Y, Yi L, Li Z, Li X, Yu Y, Guo Y, Wang Y, Jiang H, Chen Z, Svendrovski A,
Gao Y, Molloy DW, O'Caoimh R
Frontiers in Psychology. 11:558, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32308636
BACKGROUND: Cognitive frailty describes cognitive impairment associated with
physical decline. Few studies have explored whether short cognitive screens identify
frailty. We examined the diagnostic accuracy of the Chinese versions of the Quick
Mild Cognitive Impairment (Qmci-CN) screen and Montreal Cognitive Assessment
(MoCA-CN) in identifying cognitive frailty.
METHODS: Ninety-five participants with cognitive symptoms [47 with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI), 34 with subjective cognitive disorder, and 14 with dementia] were
included from two outpatient rehabilitation clinics. Energy (work intensity) and
physical activity levels were recorded. Cognitive frailty was diagnosed by an
interdisciplinary team using the IANA/IAGG consensus criteria, stratified on the
Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS). Instruments were administered sequentially and
randomly by trained assessors, blind to the diagnosis.
RESULTS: The mean age of the sample was 62.6 +/- 10.2 years; median CFS score
was 4 +/- 1 and 36 (38%) were cognitively frail. The Qmci-CN had similar accuracy indifferentiating the non-frail from cognitively frail compared to the MoCA-CN, AUC
0.82 versus 0.74, respectively (p = 0.19). At its optimal cut-off (<=55/100), the Qmci-
CN provided a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 67% versus 91% and 51%,
respectively, for the MoCA-CN (<=23/30). Neither was accurate in separating MCI
from cognitive frailty but both accurately separated cognitive frailty from dementia.
CONCLUSION: Established short cognitive screens may be useful in identifying
cognitive frailty in Chinese adults with cognitive complaints but not in separating MCI
from cognitive frailty. The Qmci-CN had similar accuracy to the MoCA-CN and a
shorter administration time in this small and under-powered study, necessitating the
need for adequately powered studies in different healthcare settings.
Copyright © 2020 Xu, Lin, Yi, Li, Li, Yu, Guo, Wang, Jiang, Chen, Svendrovski, Gao,
Molloy and O'Caoimh.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Xu, Yangfan, Lin, Yangyang, Yi, Lingrong, Li, Zhao, Li, Xian, Yu, Yuying, Guo,
Yuxiao, Wang, Yuling, Jiang, Haoying, Chen, Zhuoming, Svendrovski, Anton, Gao,
Yang, Molloy, D William, O'Caoimh, Ronan
Institution
Xu, Yangfan. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.   Lin, Yangyang. Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University,
Guangzhou, China.
Yi, Lingrong. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yi, Lingrong. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital,
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
Li, Zhao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Li, Zhao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Mianzhu Hospital of West China
Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
Li, Xian. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yu, Yuying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yu, Yuying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Second People's Hospital of
Foshan, Foshan, China.
Guo, Yuxiao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Guo, Yuxiao. UCL Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, London, United
Kingdom.
Wang, Yuling. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Jiang, Haoying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of
Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
Jiang, Haoying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Jilin Provincial People's
Hospital, Jilin, China.
Chen, Zhuoming. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital
of Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
Svendrovski, Anton. UZIK Consulting Inc., Toronto, ON, Canada.
Gao, Yang. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College Cork, St
Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
Molloy, D William. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College
Cork, St Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
Molloy, D William. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Mercy University Hospital, Cork,
Ireland.O'Caoimh, Ronan. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College
Cork, St Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
O'Caoimh, Ronan. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Mercy University Hospital,
Cork, Ireland.
O'Caoimh, Ronan. Clinical Sciences Institute, National University of Ireland Galway,
Galway, Ireland.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
78.
  
Curcumin Effects on Memory Impairment and Restoration of Irregular Neuronal
Distribution in the Hippocampal CA1 Region After Global Cerebral Ischemia in Male
Rats.
Kamali Dolatabadi L, Emamghoreishi M, Namavar MR, Badeli Sarkala H
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 10(5):527-539, 2019 Sep-Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32284841
INTRODUCTION: Global Cerebral Ischemia (GCI) causes neuronal damage with
subsequent neurological and cognitive impairments. Curcumin has anti-inflammatory,
antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties, which makes it a potential candidate for
improving GCI-induced impairments. This study aimed to investigate the effects of
curcumin on the neurological and memory deficits, as well as spatial neuronal
distribution in the Cornu Ammonis 1 region after GCI in rats.
METHODS: 56 Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomly assigned into 4 groups of
sham (n=14), control (n=14), curcumin 50 mg/kg (n=14), and curcumin 100 mg/kg
(n=14). Each group was divided into the two subgroups of short-term (7 days) and
long-term (28 days) treatment periods. The Neurological Severity Score (NSS),
passive avoidance task, and the traction test were performed at postoperative days
of 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28. The novel object recognition test and Voronoi
tessellation were carried out on days 7 and 28 after GCI.
RESULTS: Curcumin 100 mg/kg significantly decreased neurological severity score
on postoperative days of 7 and 28 compared with the control (P<0.001) and
curcumin 50 mg/kg groups (P<0.05-P<0.001), respectively. Also, curcumin 100
mg/kg significantly increased step-through latency times on postoperative days of 3-
28 and 14-28 compared with the control (P<0.05-P<0.001) and curcumin 50 mg/kg
groups (P<0.01-P<0.001). Moreover, it increased the novelty preference index during
the novel object recognition test in the 28-day treatment subgroup after GCI.
Curcumin (100 mg/kg) could maintain the neuronal aggregation in the CA1 region
after GCI at a level near to what is generally observed in normal rats.
CONCLUSION: Curcumin could improve memory and neurological deficits and
restore irregular neuronal distribution in the CA1 region after GCI in a time-
dependent manner, and its higher dose was more effective than its lower dose.
Curcumin may have beneficial effects on reducing brain complications after ischemia.
Copyright© 2019 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Kamali Dolatabadi, Leila, Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh, Namavar, Mohammad Reza,
Badeli Sarkala, Hamze
Institution
Kamali Dolatabadi, Leila. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced
Medical Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz,
Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Research Center for Psychiatry and Behavior Science,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Clinical Neurology Research Center, Shiraz University
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Histomorphometry and Stereology Research Center,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Badeli Sarkala, Hamze. Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
79.
  
High anxiety and depressive symptoms in partners of type 1 diabetes persons in a
sample of the Brazilian population.
Buin E, Pavin EJ, Silveira MSVM
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome. 12:23, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32211074
BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetes (T1D) affects psychologically not only the persons
with diabetes themselves but affects their family members. Few studies were
conducted to investigate mental health in T1D partners. This study aims: (1) to
investigate the frequency of depressive and anxiety symptoms in T1D partners and,
(2) to investigate the associations among partners' depressive and anxiety symptoms
and their sociodemographic and behavioral characteristics, and (3) to investigate the
associations among partners' depressive and anxiety symptoms and clinical,
laboratory and demographic characteristics of their T1D spouses in a Brazilian
population.
METHODS: In a transversal study 72 T1D partners were interviewed. Partners were
invited to take part in the study during their T1D spouses' routine consultations.
Those who consented to take part in the study signed the consent form. This study
followed the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the
University Ethics in Research Committee. Inclusion criteria were T1D partners age
>= 18 and T1D diagnosis > 6 months. Exclusion criteria were cognitive impairment,history of major psychiatric disorders, and severe chronic and terminal diseases.
Depressive symptoms were evaluated by the depression subscale of the Hospital
Anxiety and Depression scale (HADD) and anxiety symptoms were evaluated by the
anxiety subscale of the same instrument (HADA). T1D partners were divided into
subgroups according to score >= 8 and < 8 in both subscales. Demographic and
clinical data were obtained from interview. Descriptive analyses were undertaken
using means and percentages, as appropriate. Differences between groups were
assessed by the Mann-Whitney test for numerical variables, by the Chi Square test
or by Fisher's exact test for categorical variables, as appropriate. All analyses were
undertaken using SAS version 9.2 for Windows. Statistical significance was set at
0.05.
RESULTS: Of all 72 T1D partners, 72.2% were male, mean age was 42.7 +/- 14.1
years old, years of school attendance were 11.8 +/- 3.9 years, and 48.5% had
income reaching until 3 Brazilian minimal wages. Forty-three percent reported high
anxiety symptoms (HADA >= 8) and 18.1% reported high depressive symptoms
(HADD >= 8). Comparing T1D partners group with HADA >= 8 and < 8, the first one
was associated with CGM use (41.94% vs 19.51%; p = 0.03). Similarly, comparing
T1D partners group with HADD >= 8 and < 8, the first one was associated with (1)
longer duration of T1D of their spouses (28.6 +/- 7.1 vs 22.4 +/- 12.2; p = 0.02); (2)
less years of school attendance of T1D partners (9.3 +/- 3.2 vs 12.3 +/- 3.8; p =
0.02), and (3) higher number of hypoglycemic episodes requiring other person's
intervention (6.3 +/- 8.9 vs 2.4 +/- 4.7; p = 0.009). Seventy-six percent of partners
who helped personally in their spouses' hypoglycemia recovery had HADD >= 8 vs
44.7% with HADD < 8 (p = 0.03). Likewise, 84.6% vs 54.2% of partners in which their
spouses have T1D chronic complications had HADD >= 8 and < 8, respectively (p =
0.04).
CONCLUSION: This study showed a high frequency of relevant anxiety and
depressive symptoms in this T1D partner population. Several issues related to T1D
of their spouses were associated with these symptoms. These results emphasize the
need to incorporate the psychological and psychiatric aspects into T1D partners'
education and care.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2020.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Buin, E; GRID: grid.411087.b   Buin, E; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Pavin, E J; GRID: grid.411087.b
Pavin, E J; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Silveira, M S V M; GRID: grid.411087.b
Silveira, M S V M; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Authors Full Name
Buin, E, Pavin, E J, Silveira, M S V M
Institution
Buin, E. 1Internal Medicine Postgraduate Program, Faculty of Medical Sciences,
State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.   Pavin, E J.
2Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medical
Sciences, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Silveira, M S V M. 2Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty
of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
80.
  
Biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease: Evaluation of platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12.
Dos Santos GAA, Pardi PC
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(1):35-40, 2020 Jan-Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32206196
Currently, the most likely hypotheses as the cause of Alzheimer's disease are
deposition of amyloid beta peptide in the cerebral cortex and hyperphosphorylation of
Tau protein. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is based on the exclusion of other
diseases, behavioral assessments, and blood and imaging tests. Biotechnology has
created interesting perspectives for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease
through blood analysis, with special attention to platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the concentrations of platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12 in the blood of older adults with and without dementia of Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: A case-control study involving 120 individuals was conducted, seeking to
establish a correlation between changes in platelet, hemoglobin and vitamin B12
concentrations in patients with confirmed AD and in individuals in the inclusion group
without AD. The study met the established ethical requirements.
RESULTS: Hemoglobin and platelet levels were statistically lower in patients with
AD. The biochemical evaluation in AD patient and healthy groups for vitamin B12
showed a decrease in the levels of this compound in patients with AD.
CONCLUSION: We demonstrated the feasibility of the use of blood biomarkers as
predictive markers for the diagnosis of AD.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3326-5537 
Authors Full Name
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade, Pardi, Paulo Celso
Institution
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade. Universidade de Sao Paulo - USP. Faculdade
de Medicina de Ribeirao Preto. Departamento de Anatomia e Cirurgia. Ribeirao
Preto, SP, Brazil.   Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade. Centro Universitario do
Senac - Unidade Tiradentes. Departamento de Pos-graduacao em Farmacia.
Pardi, Paulo Celso. Universidade Anhanguera Guarulhos. Departamento de
Biomedicina, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Atualmente, as hipoteses mais provaveis como causa da doenca de Alzheimer sao a
deposicao do peptideo beta amiloide no cortex cerebral e a hiperfosforilacao da
proteina Tau. O diagnostico da doenca de Alzheimer baseia-se na exclusao de
outras doencas, avaliacoes comportamentais e exames de imagem e sangue. A
biotecnologia criou perspectivas interessantes para a deteccao precoce da doenca
de Alzheimer, pela analise sanguinea, com atencao especial as plaquetas,
hemoglobina e vitamina B12.OBJETIVO: Avaliar as concentracoes de plaquetas,
hemoglobina e vitamina B12 no sangue de idosos com e sem demencia de
Alzheimer.METODOS: O estudo de caso-controle envolveu 120 individuos,buscando correlacao entre mudancas nas concentracoes de plaquetas, hemoglobina
e vitamina B12 em pacientes com DA confirmada e individuos do grupo de inclusao,
sem DA.RESULTADOS: Os niveis de hemoglobina e plaquetas sao estatisticamente
mais baixos em pacientes com DA. A avaliacao bioquimica em pacientes com DA e
grupos saudaveis para vitamina B12 mostrou uma diminuicao nos niveis deste
composto em pacientes com DA.CONCLUSAO: Demonstramos a viabilidade do uso
de biomarcadores sanguineos como marcadores preditivos para o diagnostico de
DA.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
81.
  
The Association Between Body Mass Index and Comorbidity, Quality of Life, and
Cognitive Function in the Elderly Population.
Rambod M, Ghodsbin F, Moradi A
International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery. 8(1):45-54, 2020
Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32039279
BACKGROUND: Debate still exists regarding physical and cognitive factors
associated with Body Mass Index (BMI) in the elderly population. This study aimed to
determine the association between BMI and comorbidity, Quality of Life (QOL), and
cognitive function in the elderly population.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study was conducted from October 2017 to January
2018. The participants included 246 old people who referred to Imam Reza elderly
clinic, Shiraz, Iran. The data were collected using Leipad Quality of Life
Questionnaire and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Indeed, weight and
height were measured to assess the BMI. The data were entered into SPSS, version
21, and analyzed using ANOVA, Chi-square test, Pearson correlation coefficient, and
multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS: This study showed that 104 (47%) of the participants were overweight
and obese. The mean+/-SD score of QOL was 46.14+/-12.01. Additionally, 93
(37.8%) of the participants had cognitive impairment. The results showed a
significant difference among normal weight, overweight, and obese groups regarding
the mean scores of QOL (P<0.001) and cognitive function (P<0.001). Moreover, 29%
of the changes in BMI was explained by QOL, cognitive function, and having
hypertension and cancer. Among these variables, the associations between BMI and
QOL (r=-0.52, P<0.001) and cognitive function (r=-0.28, P<0.001) were significant.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that half of the old people suffered from
overweight and obesity. Moreover, roughly one-third had cognitive impairment. In
addition, BMI was associated with QOL and cognitive function in the elderly.
Therefore, healthcare workers might use these findings to design prevention and
treatment programs targeting the elderly population.
Copyright: © Shiraz University of Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Rambod, Masoume, Ghodsbin, Fariba, Moradi, Ali
Institution
Rambod, Masoume. Community Based Psychiatric Care Research Center,
Department of Nursing, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Ghodsbin, Fariba. Shiraz Geriatric Research
Center, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences,
Shiraz, Iran.
Moradi, Ali. Student Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences,
Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
82.
  
Effects of Tai Chi Chuan on Inhibitory Control in Elderly Women: An fNIRS Study.
Yang Y, Chen T, Shao M, Yan S, Yue GH, Jiang C
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience. 13:476, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32038205
BACKGROUND: Inhibitory control is a sub-ability of executive function and plays an
important role in the entire cognitive process. However, declines in inhibitory control
during aging significantly impair the quality of life of elderly people. Investigating
methods to delay the decline of inhibitory control has become a focal point in current
research. Tai Chi Chuan (TCC) is one effective method used to delay cognitive
declines in older adults. However, the specific effects of TCC on inhibitory control
and the mechanisms through which TCC may improve cognition in older adults have
not been comprehensively investigated.
OBJECTIVE: The study explores possible neurological mechanisms related to the
effects of TCC interventions on inhibitory control in older people using a functional
near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) technique and reaction times (RTs).
METHODS: A total of 26 healthy, elderly people who had not received TCC training
completed all study procedures. The subjects were randomized to either the TCC
group or the control group. Subjects in the TCC group were taught TCC by a certified
instructor and trained for 8 weeks. The control group continued to perform general
daily activities. The Flanker task was administered to every participant to evaluate
inhibitory control pre- and post-intervention. While participants were performing the
Flanker task, fNIRS data were collected.
RESULTS: Post-intervention, significant differences for incongruent flankers were
found only for the TCC intervention group. Faster RTs were observed for the
incongruent flankers in the TCC group than in the control group (p < 0.05). Analysis
of the fNIRS data revealed an increase in oxy-Hb in the prefrontal cortex during the
incongruent flankers after the TCC exercise intervention.
CONCLUSION: The TCC intervention significantly improved inhibitory control in older
adults, suggesting that TCC is an effective, suitable exercise for improving executive
function and neurological health in elderly people.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Register,
ChiCTR1900028457.
Copyright © 2020 Yang, Chen, Shao, Yan, Yue and Jiang.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yang, Yuan, Chen, Tingting, Shao, Mingming, Yan, Shoufu, Yue, Guang H, Jiang,
Changhao
Institution
Yang, Yuan. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and Technical
Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.   Yang,
Yuan. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Chen, Tingting. School of Education, Beijing Dance Academy, Beijing, China.
Shao, Mingming. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and
Technical Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing,
China.
Shao, Mingming. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of
Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Yan, Shoufu. School of Kinesiology and Health, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Yue, Guang H. Center for Mobility and Rehabilitation Engineering, Kessler
Foundation, West Orange, NJ, United States.
Yue, Guang H. Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The State University of
New Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States.
Jiang, Changhao. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and
Technical Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing,
China.
Jiang, Changhao. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of
Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Jiang, Changhao. School of Kinesiology and Health, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
83.
  
Differences in Psychotropic Drug Prescribing Between Ethnic Groups of People with
Dementia in the United Kingdom.
Jones ME, Petersen I, Walters K, Bhanu C, Manthorpe J, Raine R, Mukadam N,
Cooper C
Clinical Epidemiology. 12:61-71, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32021472
PURPOSE: To test hypotheses that minority ethnic people with dementia in the UK
receive fewer anti-dementia drugs and more psychotropic and anticholinergic drugsassociated with harms.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed UK primary care electronic health records
from The Health Improvement Network (THIN) database (2014-2016), comparing
psychotropic drug prescribing initiation and duration between people with dementia
from White, Black, and Asian ethnic groups. We repeated analyses in people (aged
50+) without dementia, to explore whether any differences found reflected
prescribing patterns in the general older population, or were specific to dementia.
RESULTS: We included 53,718 people with and 1,648,889 people without dementia.
Among people with dementia, compared to White ethnic groups, Asian people were
less likely to be prescribed anti-dementia drugs when they were potentially indicated
(adjusted prevalence rate ratio 0.86 (95% Confidence Interval 0.76-0.98)), and
received them for on average 15 days/year less. Compared to White groups, Asian
and Black individuals with dementia were no more likely to take an antipsychotic
drug, but those that had were prescribed them for 17 and 27 days/year more,
respectively (190.8 (179.6-199.1) and 200.7 (191.1-206.5) days). Black people were
less likely to be prescribed anxiolytics/hypnotics (0.60 (0.44-0.8)), but the duration
these drugs were prescribed was similar across ethnic groups. Asian people were
more likely to be prescribed anticholinergic drugs (1.43 (1.19-1.73)), in analyses
unadjusted for cardiovascular comorbidities. Among people without dementia, those
in the Asian and Black ethnic groups were less likely to be prescribed psychotropic
drugs, relative to people from White groups.
CONCLUSION: Among people with dementia, Asian groups received less potentially
beneficial symptomatic treatments, and Asian and Black groups were prescribed
antipsychotic drugs for longer than White ethnic groups. Our findings may indicate
care inequalities.
Copyright © 2020 Jones et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Petersen, Irene; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0037-7524   Walters, Kate;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2173-2430 
Bhanu, Cini; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3168-4172 
Authors Full Name
Jones, Mary Elizabeth, Petersen, Irene, Walters, Kate, Bhanu, Cini, Manthorpe, Jill,
Raine, Rosalind, Mukadam, Naaheed, Cooper, Claudia
Institution
Jones, Mary Elizabeth. Department of Primary Care and Population Health,
University College London, London, UK.   Petersen, Irene. Department of Primary
Care and Population Health, University College London, London, UK.
Walters, Kate. Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University
College London, London, UK.
Bhanu, Cini. Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College
London, London, UK.
Manthorpe, Jill. NIHR Health and Social Care Workforce Research Unit, King's
College London, London, UK.
Raine, Rosalind. Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London,
London, UK.
Mukadam, Naaheed. Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
Cooper, Claudia. Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
84.
  
Radioiodine Therapy of Graves' Disease and the Uptake Paradox.
Malapure SS, Mukherjee A, Bal C
Indian Journal of Nuclear Medicine. 35(1):17-20, 2020 Jan-Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31949364
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Radioiodine (131I) therapy is approved and well-
accepted modality for the treatment of hyperthyroidism. The dosage of 131I for
successful treatment is based on many factors; however, an objective tool to
determine the dose was missing. In a retrospective study, we found that high 131I
uptake values required more dose to achieve desirable results contrary to the belief.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Clinically and scintigraphically proven Graves'
disease patients with high 131I uptake (>50%) were accrued for this study and block
randomized into low-dose (Group I) and high-dose (Group II) groups. Low activity (5
mCi) was administered in Group I and higher activity (10 mCi) in Group II. The
patients were followed up after 3 months with thyroid function tests to determine the
outcome.
RESULTS: A total of 344 patients were analyzed at the end of 3 months, with 174 in
low-dose group and 170 in high-dose group. Euthyroidism/hypothyroidism was
achieved in significantly higher number of patients as compared to the low-dose
group.
CONCLUSION: The higher dose of 131I is required to achieve
euthyroidism/hypothyroidism in patients with high 131I uptake.
Copyright: © 2019 Indian Journal of Nuclear Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Malapure, Sumeet Suresh, Mukherjee, Anirban, Bal, Chandrasekar
Institution
Malapure, Sumeet Suresh. Department of Radiotherapy, Nuclear Medicine Division,
Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, Karnataka, India.   Mukherjee, Anirban.
Department of Nuclear Medicine, AMRI Hospital, Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
Bal, Chandrasekar. Department of Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
85.
  A Comparison Study of Cilostazol and Aspirin on Changes in Volume of Cerebral
Small Vessel Disease White Matter Changes: Protocol of a Multicenter, Randomized
Controlled Trial.
Han HJ, Kim BC, Youn YC, Jeong JH, Kim JH, Lee JH, Park KH, Park KW, Kim EJ,
Oh MS, Shim YS, Park HY, Yoon B, Yoon SJ, Cho SJ, Park KC, Na DL, Park SA,
Lee JM, Choi SH
Dementia and Neurocognitive Disorders. 18(4):138-148, 2019 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31942173
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) is the most
common cause of vascular dementia and a major contributor to mixed dementia.
CSVD is characterized by progressive cerebral white matter changes (WMC) due to
chronic low perfusion and loss of autoregulation. In addition to its antiplatelet effect,
cilostazol exerts a vasodilating effect and improves endothelial function. This study
aims to compare the effects of cilostazol and aspirin on changes in WMC volume in
CSVD.
METHODS: The comparison study of Cilostazol and aspirin on cHAnges in volume of
cerebral smaLL vEssel disease white matter chaNGEs (CHALLENGE) is a double
blind, randomized trial involving 19 hospitals across South Korea. Patients with
moderate or severe WMC and >= 1 lacunar infarction detected on brain magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) are eligible; the projected sample size is 254. Participants
are randomly assigned to a cilostazol or aspirin group at a 1:1 ratio. Cilostazol slow
release 200 mg or aspirin 100 mg are taken once daily for 2 years. The primary
outcome measure is the change in WMC volume on MRI from baseline to 104
weeks. Secondary imaging outcomes include changes in the number of lacunes and
cerebral microbleeds, fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity on diffusion tensor
imaging, and brain atrophy. Secondary clinical outcomes include all ischemic strokes,
all vascular events, and changes in cognition, motor function, mood, urinary
symptoms, and disability.
CONCLUSIONS: CHALLENGE will provide evidence to support the selection of long-
term antiplatelet therapy in CSVD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01932203.
Copyright © 2019 Korean Dementia Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Han, Hyun Jeong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1129-6340   Kim, Byeong C;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6827-6730 
Youn, Young Chul; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2742-1759 
Jeong, Jee Hyang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7945-6956 
Kim, Jong Hun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2594-1048 
Lee, Jae-Hong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7368-4560 
Park, Kee Hyung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6847-6679 
Park, Kyung Won; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6788-5267 
Kim, Eun-Joo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8460-1377 
Oh, Mi Sun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6741-0464 
Shim, Yong S; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5642-5401 
Park, Hyun Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1394-9453 
Yoon, Bora; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1135-3392 
Yoon, Soo Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4671-6832 
Cho, Soo-Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4053-3763 
Park, Key Chung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8250-9561 
Na, Duk L; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0098-7592 
Park, Sun Ah; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3027-3259 
Lee, Jong-Min; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3598-376X 
Choi, Seong Hye; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4180-8626 Authors Full Name
Han, Hyun Jeong, Kim, Byeong C, Youn, Young Chul, Jeong, Jee Hyang, Kim, Jong
Hun, Lee, Jae-Hong, Park, Kee Hyung, Park, Kyung Won, Kim, Eun-Joo, Oh, Mi
Sun, Shim, Yong S, Park, Hyun Young, Yoon, Bora, Yoon, Soo Jin, Cho, Soo-Jin,
Park, Key Chung, Na, Duk L, Park, Sun Ah, Lee, Jong-Min, Choi, Seong Hye
Institution
Han, Hyun Jeong. Department of Neurology, Myongji Hospital, Hanyang University
College of Medicine, Goyang, Korea.   Kim, Byeong C. Department of Neurology,
Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea.
Youn, Young Chul. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang
University, Seoul, Korea.
Jeong, Jee Hyang. Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Kim, Jong Hun. Department of Neurology, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan
Hospital, Goyang, Korea.
Lee, Jae-Hong. Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Park, Kee Hyung. Department of Neurology, Gil Medical Center, Gachon University
College of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Department of Neurology, Dong-A University College of Medicine,
Busan, Korea.
Kim, Eun-Joo. Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Hospital, Pusan
National University School of Medicine and Medical Research Institute, Busan,
Korea.
Oh, Mi Sun. Department of Neurology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital,
Hallym University College of Medicine, Anyang, Korea.
Shim, Yong S. Department of Neurology, The Catholic University of Korea
Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, Bucheon, Korea.
Park, Hyun Young. Department of Neurology, Wonkwang University School of
Medicine, Iksan, Korea.
Yoon, Bora. Department of Neurology, Konyang University College of Medicine,
Daejeon, Korea.
Yoon, Soo Jin. Department of Neurology, Eulji University Hospital, Eulji University
School of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea.
Cho, Soo-Jin. Department of Neurology, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart
Hospital, Hallym University College of Medicine, Hwaseong, Korea.
Park, Key Chung. Department of Neurology, Kyung Hee University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Na, Duk L. Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Park, Sun Ah. Department of Anatomy and Neurology, Ajou University School of
Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
Lee, Jong-Min. Department of Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul,
Korea.
Choi, Seong Hye. Department of Neurology, Inha University School of Medicine,
Incheon, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
  
86.
  
The Effect of Multi-tasking Exercise Intervention on Cognitive Function in Elderly and
Cognitive Impairment Patients: a Pilot Multicenter Study.
Lee HJ, Lee M, Park H, Park JH, Park KW
Dementia and Neurocognitive Disorders. 18(4):122-129, 2019 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31942171
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the
impact of multi-tasking exercise on cognitive and motor function in patients with mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) and cognitive normal elderly (CNE).
METHODS: A total of 144 subjects were recruited from 14 regional dementia centers
in Busan Metropolitan City. With the exception of 77 subjects unsuitable for the
study, 67 subjects participated in the intervention. The Korean version of Mini-Mental
State Examination for Dementia Screening (MMSE-DS), Subject Memory Complain
Questionnaire (SMCQ), and the Korean version of the Short-Form Geriatric
Depression Scale (SGDS-K) were used to determine changes in cognitive function
and depressive symptoms pre-post intervention in patients with MCI and CNE,
respectively. To observe changes in motor function, 5-chair sit to stand and 5-meter
walking speed on the lower body strength and walking ability were also measured in
both groups.
RESULTS: For the MCI group, changes in cognitive and depressive symptoms on
the tasks of MMSE-DS (p=0.006), SMCQ (p=0.000), SGDS-K (p=0.000) and the
result of the motor function analysis on the items of 5-chair sit to stand (p=0.000),
normal speed (p=0.004) and maximal speed (p=0.002) of 5-meter walking speed
(p<0.005). In the CNE group, all the items except MMSE-DS (p=0.068) and SGDS-K
(p=0.095) showed statistically significant improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Multi-tasking exercise intervention, including exercise and cognitive
tasks, may possibly improve the cognitive and motor function in patients with MCI
and CNE.
Copyright © 2019 Korean Dementia Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Lee, Hee Jae; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1212-6810   Lee, MinJae; ORCID:
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0244-0598 
Park, Hyuntae; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1976-0005 
Park, Jong Hwan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2815-7248 
Park, Kyung Won; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6788-5267 
Authors Full Name
Lee, Hee Jae, Lee, MinJae, Park, Hyuntae, Park, Jong Hwan, Park, Kyung Won
Institution
Lee, Hee Jae. Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.   Lee, MinJae.
Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.
Park, Hyuntae. Department of Healthcare and Science, Dong-A University, Busan,
Korea.
Park, Jong Hwan. Institute of Biomedical Research, Pusan National University
Hospital, Busan, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Department of Neurology, Dong-A University College of Medicine,
Busan, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
87.
  
Comparison of cholinesterase inhibitor safety in real-world practice.
Carney G, Bassett K, Wright JM, Maclure M, McGuire N, Dormuth CR
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions. 5:732-739,
2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31921965
INTRODUCTION: Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) are widely used to treat mild to
moderate Alzheimer's disease and related dementia. Clinical trials have focused on
placebo comparisons, inadequately addressing within-class comparative safety.
METHODS: New users of ChEIs in British Columbia were categorized into five study
cohorts: low-dose donepezil, high-dose donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine patch,
and oral rivastigmine. Comparative safety of ChEIs assessed hazard ratios using
propensity score adjusted Cox regression.
RESULTS: Compared with low-dose donepezil, galantamine use was associated
with a lower risk of mortality (adjusted hazard ratio: 0.84, 95% confidence interval:
0.60-1.18), cardiovascular serious adverse events (adjusted hazard ratio: 0.78, 95%
confidence interval: 0.62-0.98), and entry into a residential care facility (adjusted
hazard ratio: 0.72, 95% confidence interval: 0.59-0.89).
DISCUSSION: Given the absence of randomized trial data showing clinically
meaningful benefit of ChEI therapy in Alzheimer's disease, our study suggests
preferential use of galantamine may at least be associated with fewer adverse events
than treatment with donepezil or rivastigmine.
Copyright © 2019 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Carney, Greg, Bassett, Ken, Wright, James M, Maclure, Malcolm, McGuire, Nicolette,
Dormuth, Colin R
Institution
Carney, Greg. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada.   Carney, Greg. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and
Therapeutics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Department of Family Practice, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Maclure, Malcolm. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,BC, Canada.
Maclure, Malcolm. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
McGuire, Nicolette. Research and Innovation Division, B.C. Ministry of Health,
Victoria, BC, Canada.
Dormuth, Colin R. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada.
Dormuth, Colin R. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
88.
  
Evaluation of Postoperative Delirium: Validity and Reliability of the Nursing Delirium
Screening Scale in the Turkish Language.
Cinar F, Eti Aslan F
Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders Extra. 9(3):362-373, 2019 Sep-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31911787
PURPOSE: Postoperative delirium is the most well-known form of postoperative
cognitive impairment in all patient groups, especially in the elderly. Delirium is a
syndrome that causes serious consequences, increasing mortality and morbidity
rates and extending the length of hospital stay. The aim of this study was to evaluate
the validity and reliability of the Turkish version of the Nursing Delirium Screening
Scale (Nu-DESC).
METHOD: One hundred twelve patients who were hospitalized for a surgical
operation in the orthopedics, neurosurgery, and general surgery clinic of a state
hospital for 3 months were evaluated concurrently (and independently for delirium).
Patients were observed by clinical nurses 3 times over a 24-h period. The presence
of delirium was diagnosed by 2 neurologists according to DSM-IV criteria. Student's t
test, the chi2 test, and the Mann-Whitney U test were used, and construct validity,
intrascale factor analysis, interrater reliability, and specificity and sensitivity (ROC)
analyses were performed for descriptive analysis. SPSS 25.0 and MedCalc18.6 were
used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Delirium was detected in 28 patients according to the Nu-DESC. The ICC
(intraclass correlation) is 0.97 in the 95% confidence interval from 0.96 to 0.98 for
agreement between nurses and neurologists for the total Nu-DESC score. Weighted
kappa rates were between 0.78 and 0.92. In the ROC analysis of the Nu-DESC
scale, the optimum cutoff value calculated for the 1,344 observations and 112
patients was determined as >1 according to the maximum sensitivity and the specific
situation. Sensitivity at the cut-off point was 92.27; specificity was determined as
92.72. The Youden index was found to be J = 0.845 (0 < J = 0.845 < 1).
CONCLUSION: We believe that Turkish translation of Nu-DESC is valid and reliable
for clinicians, nurses, and researchers and will contribute to delirium studies.
Copyright © 2019 by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Cinar, Fadime, Eti Aslan, Fatma
Institution
Cinar, Fadime. Sabahattin Zaim University, Faculty of Health Sciences, Istanbul,
Turkey.   Eti Aslan, Fatma. Bahcesehir University, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Istanbul, Turkey.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
89.
  
The experimental research on neuroplasticity in rats' hippocampus subjected to
chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and interfered by Modified Dioscorea Pills.
Li HB, Liang WB, Zhou L
Heliyon. 6(1):e02897, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31909235
BACKGROUND: Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion (CCH) is a common, crucial and
tough problem for old people. It easily leads to Lacunar Infarction and even Vascular
Dementia (VD). Western medicine has the advantage to relieve some VD symptoms
but fails to cure it. Some classic Chinese medicines have good efficacies to treat and
delay the cerebral functional decline resulted from CCH. Among them Modified
Dioscorea Pills (MDP) has been proven to have a convincing effect in curing VD. So
far the knowledge about neuroplasticity in CCH is little known and the underlying
interfered mechanism by MDP on neuroplasticity has not yet been explored. This
study explores the changes of neuroplasticity involving neurogenesis, angiogenesis
and synaptogenesis in CCH and interfered by MDP.
METHODS: 40 male SD rats were divided into the Sham operated Group, the Model
Group and the MDP Group according to a Random Number Table. Bilateral Common
Carotid Arteries Occlusion (BCCAO) was adopted to prepare CCH models. MDP
condense decoction had been administered by gavage to rats in the MDP Group
(10g.Kg-1.d-1) for 45 days; Rats in the other two groups were accepted normal salts
as substitution with same dosage and course. Through Morris Water Maze (MWM)
test, pathological observation of hippocampus, ultrastructural study on synapse, Real
Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry detection,
the capacities of intelligence of rats, the morphological character of hippocampus
CA1 zone and the synapse associated protein and gene such as Growth Associated
Protein (GAP-43) mRNA, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) mRNA,
Microtubule-associated Protein (MAP)-2, Synaptophysin (SYP), Postsynaptic Density
protein (PSD)-95 and Micro Vessel Density (MVD) were determined. Through one-
way ANOVA the data was analyzed and when P<0.05 the result was considered
significant.
RESULTS: Compared to the Model Group, rats in the MDP Group achieved much
better behavioral performance (P<0.05); more neurons and more synapses
regenerated; the expression of SYP, PSD-95and MAP-2 up-regulated (P<0.05); The
expressions of GAP-43 mRNA and VEGF mRNA in the Model Group were higherthan those in the Sham operated Group (P<0.05), but they reached the highest in the
MDP Group (P<0.05); The count of MVD in the Sham operated Group is the lowest,
it is higher in the MDP Group and it reaches highest in the Model Group (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Some key genes promoting neuroplasticity such as GAP-43 mRNA
and VEGF mRNA remarkably up-regulated in CCH, they only boost angiogenesis but
fail to facilitate neurogenesis and synaptogenesis in CCH. However, accompanied by
furtherly up-regulation of these two key genes, MDP obviously improves
neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and temperate angiogenesis in CCH which may be
underlying its good efficacy.
Copyright © 2019 The Author(s).
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Li, H B, Liang, W B, Zhou, L
Institution
Li, H B. Emergency Department of the First People's Hospital of Guiyang, Guiyang,
Guizhou Province, People's Republic of China.   Liang, W B. Surgery Department of
Wudong Hospital of Wuhan City. Wuhan, Hubei Province, People's Republic of
China.
Zhou, L. Emergency Department of the First People's Hospital of Guiyang, Guiyang,
Guizhou Province, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
90.
  
Comparision of Vital Surgical Parameters, after Administration of Midazolam and
Dexmedetomidine for Conscious Sedation in Minor Oral Surgery.
Sivasubramani S, Pandyan DA, Ravindran C
Annals of Maxillofacial Surgery. 9(2):283-288, 2019 Jul-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31909006
AIM: The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy between midazolam and
dexmedetomidine in relation to vital parameters, sedation score, pain score, cognitive
judgment, and postoperative amnesia to the event in conscious sedation for minor
oral surgical procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A sample size of 30 patients were selected in each
group: Group M (midazolam) and Group D (dexmedetomidine).
RESULTS: The mean heart rate (HR) and systolic and diastolic blood pressure
measurements were significantly higher in Group M after the 20th min when
compared to Group D. The visual analog scale (VAS) scores of pain were not
statistically significant between the two groups during the procedure, but at the time
of discharge, statistically significant VAS scores were found between the two groups.
Nine (30%) patients in Group D and 21 (70%) patients in Group M showed cognitive
judgment impairment with the Stroop Color and Word Test at the 30th min.
CONCLUSION: The dexmedetomidine group of patients had reduced blood pressureand HR. No significant differences were noted in oxygen saturation or in respiratory
rate between the two drugs. Patients had better sedation, analgesia, lesser cognitive
impairment, and amnesia in the dexmedetomidine group.
Copyright: © 2019 Annals of Maxillofacial Surgery.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Sivasubramani, Suryahanthmihiran, Pandyan, Deepak Abraham, Ravindran, C
Institution
Sivasubramani, Suryahanthmihiran. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu,
India.   Pandyan, Deepak Abraham. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu,
India.
Ravindran, C. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Sri Ramachandra
Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
91.
  
Relatively young T1D adults using fixed doses of insulin have higher diabetes
distress levels in a sample of patients from a Brazilian tertiary hospital.
Silveira MSVM, Bovi TG, Pavin EJ
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome. 11:104, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31890038
BACKGROUND: Elevated rates of anxiety and depressive symptoms in Type 1
Diabetes patients (T1D) and high rates of diabetes-specific distress (DD) have been
shown. Several factors may be responsible for increase the DD levels such as age,
life changes, lack of familiar support, education, insulin regimens (IRs) and chronic
complications. The goals of this study were: 1-to compare DD levels, anxiety and
depressive symptoms according to age (< and >= 25 years old), 2-to evaluate the
association between DD levels, anxiety and depressive symptoms and IRs, and 3-to
evaluate the association between DD levels, anxiety and depressive symptoms and
chronic complications.
METHODS: In a cross-sectional study, T1D patients receiving outpatient care at
Unicamp tertiary hospital were included. Inclusion criteria were age at least 18 years
old and diagnosis of T1D for 6 months. Exclusion criteria were cognitive impairment,
major psychiatric disorders, severe diabetes-related complications, and pregnancy.
Depressive symptoms were evaluated by the depression subscale of the Hospital
Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD-D) and the anxiety symptoms by the anxiety
subscale of the same instrument (HAD-A). DDS scale assessed DD. Glycemic
control was evaluated by HbA1C. The latest lipid panel results were recorded and
IRs and chronic complications were obtained through chart review.
RESULTS: Of all 70 patients, 70% were younger than 25 years old. No differenceswere found between two groups according to gender, education, and income (p =
0.39, p = 0.87, and p = 0.52, respectively). HbA1c mean was 10% in both groups (p
= 0.15). Older patients had higher levels of total DD and physician DD than younger
(p = 0.0048 and p = 0.0413; respectively). Total DD and DD on subscales 1 and 2
were higher in patients using fixed doses of insulin compared to variable doses
according to carbohydrates count (p = 0.0392, p = 0.0383 and p = 0.0043,
respectively). No differences were found between anxiety and depressive symptoms
and age and IRs. Similarly, no differences were found among DD levels, anxiety and
depressive symptoms in patients with and without chronic complications.
CONCLUSIONS: When providing education and care for T1D patients, health
providers should consider age, patient's developmental stage, with its related
demands and the burden of insulin regimen.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2019.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Silveira, M S V M, Bovi, T G, Pavin, E J
Institution
Silveira, M S V M. Internal Medicine Postgraduate Program, Faculty of Medical
Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.   Bovi, T G. Internal Medicine Postgraduate
Program, Faculty of Medical Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.
Pavin, E J. Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of
Medical Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
92.
  
The effectiveness of cognitive training on improving cognitive function and sleep
quality in community-dwelling elderly in Iran.
Keramtinejad M, Azadi A, Taghinejad H, Khorshidi A
Sleep Science. 12(2):88-93, 2019 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879540
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Given the ever-increasing of the older adults population
and in order to achieve healthy and active ageing goals and improvement in the
cognitive function and sleep quality in older adult, this study aimed to evaluate the
effect of cognitive training program on improving cognitive function and ageing-
related sleep quality in community-dwelling elderly in Iran, in 2018.
METHODS: This was an experimental study. The sample comprised 420 older adults
who were a member of the comprehensive health center in one of the southern cities
of Iran. 164 had a cognitive problem and sleep disorder, of whom 108 were selected
by the available method and based on inclusion criteria. Participants were randomly
allocated to an experimental group (n=54) and a control group (n=54). Experimental
group samples were undergoing the intervention for two months. Data were collected
using MMSE questionnaire, Pittsburgh sleep quality, insomnia severity index andClinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR). Data were collected one month before-and-
after the intervention. Data were analyzed using SPSS software.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the mean score of cognitive
function and sleep quality in both the intervention group and the control group before
the intervention (p>0.05). At the post-test, the mean (SD) of elderly adults' cognitive
function in the intervention and control groups were 2.7 (1.3) and 3.44 (1.7),
respectively (p=0.017). Moreover, the mean (SD) of sleep quality in older adults in
the intervention and the control group was 6.76 (2.3) and 9.25 (2.36), respectively
(p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Given the obtained results in the current study the cognitive training
promotes cognitive function and sleep quality in older adults. Therefore, since this
program is effective, low-cost and applicable, it can be used to improve cognitive
function and sleep disorder in the older adult population.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Keramtinejad, Maryam, Azadi, Arman, Taghinejad, Hamid, Khorshidi, Ali
Institution
Keramtinejad, Maryam. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department -
Ilam - Ilam - Iran.   Keramtinejad, Maryam. Ilam University of Medical sciences,
Student research committee - Ilam - Ilam - Iran.
Azadi, Arman. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department - Ilam - Ilam
- Iran.
Taghinejad, Hamid. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department - Ilam -
Ilam - Iran.
Khorshidi, Ali. Ilam University of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine - Ilam - Ilam -
Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
93.
  
Effect of psychotic symptoms on cognitive impairment in patients with bipolar
disorder.
Achalia RM, Nagendra B, Achalia G, Chopade M, Sable A, Venkatasubramanian G,
Rao NP
Industrial Psychiatry Journal. 28(1):115-122, 2019 Jan-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879457
BACKGROUND: A considerable proportion of patients with bipolar disorder (BD)
have psychotic symptoms during the illness. This subset of BD due to its genetic
susceptibility and family segregation has considerable overlap with schizophrenia.
However, the extent to which BD patients with psychotic symptoms and without
psychotic symptoms differ on neurocognitive functions is still not completely clear.
AIM: The aim of this study was to examine the neurocognitive functions in BD
patients with psychotic symptoms and BD without psychotic symptoms in comparisonwith healthy volunteers (HVs).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty patients with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition BD (16 with psychotic symptoms) and thirty age-
and sex-matched HVs were recruited in the study. Clinical severity was assessed
using structured rating scales. The presence of psychotic symptoms was assessed
using the Lifetime Dimensions of Psychosis Scale (LDPS). All patients underwent
tests, namely continuous performance test, Stroop Word-Color interference test, and
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, to measure executive functions. Differences between
groups were examined using analysis of covariance with age and sex as covariates.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference between groups on the performance of
all the three tests, with patients performing poorer than HVs. While the HVs differed
from both BD with psychotic symptoms and without psychotic symptoms, there was
no difference between BD patients with and without psychotic symptoms. There was
no significant correlation between LDPS score and scores on neurocognitive tests.
CONCLUSION: The study findings, at least with respect to cognitive function,
suggest that BD with psychotic symptoms may not be a categorically distinct subtype
of BD. Cognitive functions need to be assessed in all patients with BD, regardless of
psychotic symptoms, and remediation interventions need to be provided.
Copyright: © 2019 Industrial Psychiatry Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh, Nagendra, Bhargavi, Achalia, Garimaa, Chopade,
Mahesh, Sable, Abhijit, Venkatasubramanian, Ganesan, Rao, Naren P
Institution
Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College,
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.   Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh. Achalia
Neuropsychiatry Clinic, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Nagendra, Bhargavi. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health
and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Achalia, Garimaa. Achalia Neuropsychiatry Clinic, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Chopade, Mahesh. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College,
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Sable, Abhijit. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College, Aurangabad,
Maharashtra, India.
Venkatasubramanian, Ganesan. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of
Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Rao, Naren P. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
94.
  
Psychiatric morbidity, cognitive dysfunction and quality of life in drug-naive patients
with Parkinson's disease: A comparative study.Dhar SS, Jeenger J, Singroha V, Sharma M, Mathur DM
Industrial Psychiatry Journal. 28(1):13-18, 2019 Jan-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879441
BACKGROUND: To better understand the psychiatric disorders and cognition in
Parkinson's disease (PD) and its impact on quality of life (QoL), patients need to be
studied soon after diagnosis, before initiation of dopamine replacement therapy.
AIM: This study aims to compare the nature and frequency of psychiatric morbidity,
cognitive dysfunction, and quality of life in drug-naive patients with PD and healthy
controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cross-sectional, comparative study was
conducted in tertiary care center. Fifty drug-naive PD patients and fifty healthy
controls were included and assessed on Modified Hoehn and Yahr scale, PD
Questionnaire 8, Kolkata cognitive screening battery, General Health Questionnaire-
12, and Hamilton Anxiety and Depression Rating Scale (HAM-A and HAM-D).
RESULTS: The mean scores of HAM-A and HAM-D of patients with PD were
significantly higher than that of the comparison group. The patients with PD had
statistically significant impairment in verbal fluency, Mini-Mental State Examination,
calculation, memory immediate recall, visuoconstructional ability, and memory
(delayed recall and recognition) in comparison to patients without PD. No statistically
significant difference was observed with respect to object naming between the two
groups.
CONCLUSION: QoL of a PD patient is adversely affected by both the motor and
nonmotor symptoms of the disease such as depression, anxiety, apathy, sleep
disturbances, and cognitive impairment. The link between nonmotor symptoms and
reduced QoL has important implications for the management of PD because the
nonmotor symptoms often appear before patients are given anti-parkinsonian
therapy. Screening of nonmotor symptoms in early stage of disease will decrease the
morbidity and mortality and improve the QoL.
Copyright: © 2019 Industrial Psychiatry Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Dhar, Subhendu Shekhar, Jeenger, Jitendra, Singroha, Vikas, Sharma, Manu,
Mathur, Devendra Mohan
Institution
Dhar, Subhendu Shekhar. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and
Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.   Jeenger, Jitendra. Department of Psychiatry,
Geetanjali Medical College and Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Singroha, Vikas. Department of Psychiatry, Saheed Hasan Khan Mewati
Government Medical College, Nuh, Haryana, India.
Sharma, Manu. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and Hospital,
Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Mathur, Devendra Mohan. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and
Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
95.
  
Comparative Study of Cognitive Function Between Treatment-Resistant Depressive
Patients and First-Episode Depressive Patients.
Rao D, Xu G, Lu Z, Liang H, Lin K, Tang M
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3411-3417, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31849475
OBJECTIVE: Despite reports of cognitive dysfunction during the acute phase of
depression, there is a lack of studies in patients with treatment-resistant depression
(TRD). The aim of this study was to investigate the cognitive function profile of TRD
and compare cognitive dysfunction between subjects with TRD and first-episode
depression.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 31 patients with TRD and 53 with
first-episode depression. Cognitive function was assessed by a series of
neuropsychological tools such as the verbal fluency test, Modified Wisconsin Card
Sorting Test (M-WCST), Tower of Hanoi test, Chinese-revision of the Wechsler Adult
Intelligence Scale (WAIS-RC), and Trail Making Test A and B.
RESULTS: There were no significant demographic differences between the TRD,
first-episode depression, and normal control groups (gender, age, years of
education). The full-scale, verbal, and performance intelligence quotients measured
with the WAIS-RC were also not significantly different (p>0.05). The normal group
scores were all significantly better than TRD and first-episode depression, and the
TRD group performed significantly worse than subjects with first-episode depression
on Trail Making Test B, two WCST subscales, and the profile score of the Tower of
Hanoi test (all p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Patients with depression exhibited global impairments in cognitive
function, and these were more common in TRD. Poor executive function may play an
important role in TRD.
Copyright © 2019 Rao et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Rao, Dongping; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7629-9879   Lu, Zenghong;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1565-9708 
Authors Full Name
Rao, Dongping, Xu, Guiyun, Lu, Zenghong, Liang, Huiwei, Lin, Kangguang, Tang,
Muni
Institution
Rao, Dongping. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of
Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's
Republic of China.   Xu, Guiyun. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain
Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou,
People's Republic of China.
Lu, Zenghong. The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical University, Jiangxi,
People's Republic of China.
Liang, Huiwei. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of Guangzhou
Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's Republic of
China.
Lin, Kangguang. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of
Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's
Republic of China.
Tang, Muni. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of GuangzhouMedical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's Republic of
China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
96.
  
Discourse in aging: Narrative and Persuasive.
Babaei Z, Ghayoumi-Anaraki Z, Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari B
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 13(4):444-449, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31844499
The growth in the elderly population has posed a social, economic and health
challenge for the twenty-first century.
OBJECTIVE: Aging is often characterized by changes in cognitive functions which
affect the receptive and expressive capabilities of language. Since language plays a
significant role in human life, we evaluate the existence of age-related differences in
narrative and persuasive discourses.
METHODS: The narrative discourse of 91 adults and persuasive discourse of 92
adults,aged from 19 to 75 years and stratified into four age groups,were examined.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference between coherence in the
elderly group and each of the other three age groups for both types of discourse.
There was also a significant difference for the cohesion variable between the elderly
and the first age group for narrative discourse only.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrate that discourse is influenced by
aging and type (genre) of discourse task. Therefore, it is essential for clinicians to
take into account the linguistic needs of elderly and incorporate these into their
clinical programs. Also, this finding can help clinicians to distinguish between
discourses of normal aging and other neurologic disorders (for example dementia,
right hemisphere damage, aphasia).
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8733-1392 
Authors Full Name
Babaei, Zahra, Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra, Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari, Behrooz
Institution
Babaei, Zahra. MSc, Department of Speech Therapy, University of Social Welfare
and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra.
PhD,Department of Speech Therapy, School of Paramedical Sciences, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari, Behrooz. PhD, Department of Performing Arts, University of
Tehran, Tehran, IR Iran.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O aumento da populacao idosa colocou um desafio social, economico e de saudepara o seculo XXI.OBJETIVO: O envelhecimento e frequentemente caracterizado
pela presenca de alteracoes nas funcoes cognitivas que afetam as capacidades
receptivas e expressivas da linguagem. Como a linguagem desempenha um papel
significativo na vida humana, avaliamos a existencia de diferencas relacionadas a
idade nos discursos narrativos e persuasivos.METODOS: O discurso narrativo de 91
adultos e o discurso persuasivo de 92 adultos com idade entre 19 e 75 anos,
divididos em quatro faixas etarias, foram examinados.RESULTADOS: Existe uma
diferenca estatisticamente significativa entre a coerencia no grupo de
envelhecimento e cada um dos outros tres grupos nos dois tipos de discursos. Existe
tambem uma diferenca significativa para a variavel coesao entre idosos e a primeira
faixa etaria apenas no discurso narrativo.CONCLUSAO: Os resultados deste estudo
demonstram que o discurso e influenciado pelo envelhecimento e tipo da tarefa
discursiva. Portanto, e essencial que os medicos levem em consideracao as
necessidades linguisticas dos idosos e as incorporem em seus programas clinicos.
Alem disso, esses resultados ajudam os medicos a distinguir entre discursos de
envelhecimento normal e outros disturbios neurologicos (por exemplo, demencia,
lesoes do hemisferio direito, afasia).
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
97.
  
Cognitive performance of children with spinal muscular atrophy: A systematic review.
 
Polido GJ, de Miranda MMV, Carvas N, Mendonca RH, Caromano FA, Reed UC,
Zanoteli E, Voos MC
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 13(4):436-443, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31844498
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is genetic and progressive, caused by large bi-allelic
deletions in the SMN1 gene, or the association of a large deletion and a null variant.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the evidence about cognitive outcomes in spinal muscular
atrophy (SMA).
METHODS: Searches on the PUBMED/Medline, Web of Knowledge and Scielo
databases retrieved 26 studies (1989 to 2019, descriptors "spinal muscular atrophy"
and "cognition"). Nine studies were selected according to the eligibility criteria: (1)
cognition tested in individuals with SMA; (2) written in English or Spanish. The Risk
of Bias in Non-Randomized Studies of Interventions was used to describe design,
bias, participants, evaluation protocol and main findings. This study was registered
on the International prospective register of systematic reviews (PROSPERO).
RESULTS: Three studies described normal cognition. In another three studies,
cognitive outcomes were above average. Cognitive impairment was found in three
studies. Poor cognitive performance was more frequently reported in studies that
were recent, included children with SMA type I and that employed visual/auditory
attention and executive function tests. Protocols and cognitive domains varied,
precluding metanalysis.
CONCLUSION: The severity of motor impairment may be related to cognitiveoutcomes: studies that included a higher number/percentage of children with SMA
type I found cognitive impairment. The establishment of gold-standard protocols is
necessary. Further studies should compare the cognitive outcomes of subjects with
SMA types I to IV.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Voos, Mariana Callil; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6252-7287 
Authors Full Name
Polido, Graziela Jorge, de Miranda, Mariana Mangini Vaz, Carvas, Nelson,
Mendonca, Rodrigo de Holanda, Caromano, Fatima Aparecida, Reed, Umbertina
Conti, Zanoteli, Edmar, Voos, Mariana Callil
Institution
Polido, Graziela Jorge. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.   de Miranda,
Mariana Mangini Vaz. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Carvas, Nelson. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Saude do Instituto de
Assistencia Medica ao Servidor Publico Estadual de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Mendonca, Rodrigo de Holanda. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de
Neurologia Clinica, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Caromano, Fatima Aparecida. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da
Reabilitacao, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Reed, Umbertina Conti. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de Neurologia
Clinica, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Zanoteli, Edmar. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de Neurologia Clinica,
Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Voos, Mariana Callil. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
A atrofia muscular espinhal (SMA) e genetica e progressiva, causada por grandes
delecoes bi-alelicas no gene SMN1, ou pela associacao de uma grande delecao e
uma variante nula.OBJETIVO: Avaliar as evidencias sobre o desempenho cognitivo
na atrofia muscular espinhal (AME).METODOS: Pesquisas nas bases de dados
PUBMED/ Medline, Web of Knowledge e Scielo localizaram 26 estudos (1989 a
2019, descritores "atrofia muscular espinhal" e "cognicao"). Nove estudos foram
selecionados de acordo com os criterios de elegibilidade: (1) testaram a cognicao
em pessoas com AME; (2) escritos em ingles/espanhol. A avaliacao do risco de vies
em estudos com intervencoes nao-randomizadas foi utilizada para descrever o
desenho experimental, vies, amostra, protocolo de avaliacao e principais achados.
Este estudo foi aprovado no Registro Internacional Prospectivo de Revisoes
Sistematicas (PROSPERO).RESULTADOS: Em tres estudos, foi registrado que a
cognicao estava preservada. Em tres estudos, o desempenho cognitivo estava
acima da media. O comprometimento cognitivo foi encontrado em tres estudos.
Desempenho cognitivo pobre foi mais frequentemente relatado em estudos recentes,
estudos que incluiram criancas com AME tipo I e estudos que incluiram atencao
visual/auditiva e testes de funcao executiva. Protocolos e dominios cognitivos
variaram muito, portanto nao foi possivel a realizacao de metanalise.CONCLUSAO:
A gravidade do comprometimento motor pode estar relacionada ao desempenho
cognitivo: estudos que incluiram maior numero/porcentagem de criancas com AME
tipo I encontraram alteracoes no desempenho cognitivo. O estabelecimento de
protocolos padrao-ouro e necessario. Novos estudos devem comparar o
desempenho cognitivo de pessoas com AME tipos I a IV, ou seja, com diferencas no
prognostico e no desempenho motor.
Language: PortugueseYear of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
98.
  
Traditional Chinese Medicine Shenmayizhi Decoction Ameliorates Memory And
Cognitive Impairment Induced By Scopolamine Via Preventing Hippocampal
Cholinergic Dysfunction In Rats.
Wu Q, Cao Y, Liu M, Liu F, Brantner AH, Yang Y, Wei Y, Zhou Y, Wang Z, Ma L,
Wang F, Pei H, Li H
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3167-3176, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31814724
PURPOSE: Clinical trials have illustrated that Shenmayizhi decoction (SMYZ) could
improve the cognitive functions in patients with dementia. However, the mechanism
needs to be explored.
METHODS: Fifty adult male rats (Wistar strain) were divided into five groups equally
and randomly, including control, model, and SMYZ of low dose, medium dose and
high dose. Rats in each group received a daily gavage of respective treatment. Rats
in control and model group were administrated by the same volume of distilled water.
Memory impairment was induced by intraperitoneal administration of scopolamine
(0.7 mg/kg) for 5 continuous days. Four weeks later, Morris water maze (MWM) was
performed to evaluate the spatial memory in all rats. Then, rats were sacrificed and
the hippocampus was removed for further tests. Furthermore, Western blot analysis
was employed to assess the levels of acetylcholine M1 receptor (M1), acetylcholine
M2 receptor (M2), acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and cholineacetyltransferase (ChAT).
AChE and ChAT activities were determined.
RESULTS: The SMYZ decoction significantly improved behavioral performance of
rats in high dose. The SMYZ decoction in three doses exhibited anti-
acetylcholinesterase activity. In addition, a high dose of SMYZ promoted ChAT
activity. Moreover, a high dose of SMYZ increased the level of ChAT and declined
the level of AChE assessed by Western blotting. Besides, an increased level of M1
receptor was found after treatment.
CONCLUSION: Shenmayizhi decoction could mitigate scopolamine-induced
cognitive deficits through the preventative effect on cholinergic system dysfunction.
Copyright © 2019 Wu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Wu, Qiong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1653-3683   Cao, Yu; ORCID:
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1211-1122 
Liu, Meixia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3277-8004 
Brantner, Adelheid H; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7812-9291 
Yang, Yang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0536-8416 
Wang, Feixue; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3800-5160 
Li, Hao; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8502-2556 Authors Full Name
Wu, Qiong, Cao, Yu, Liu, Meixia, Liu, Fang, Brantner, Adelheid H, Yang, Yang, Wei,
Yun, Zhou, Yu, Wang, Zhiyong, Ma, Lina, Wang, Feixue, Pei, Hui, Li, Hao
Institution
Wu, Qiong. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.   Wu, Qiong.
Department of Ophthalmology, Dongfang Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing 100078, People's Republic of China.
Cao, Yu. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Liu, Meixia. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Liu, Fang. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Brantner, Adelheid H. Department of Pharmacognosy, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
Yang, Yang. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Wei, Yun. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Zhou, Yu. Department of Polymer Chemistry, Zernike Institute for Advanced
Materials, Groningen 9747 AG, The Netherlands.
Wang, Zhiyong. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Ma, Lina. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Wang, Feixue. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Pei, Hui. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Li, Hao. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
99.
  
Reversion From Mild Cognitive Impairment To Normal Cognition: False-Positive Error
Or True Restoration Thanks To Cognitive Control Ability?.
Chung JY, Yoon HJ, Kim H, Choi KY, Lee JJ, Lee KH, Seo EH
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3021-3032, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31749620
PURPOSE: Relatively little attention has been paid to the meaning of reversion from
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to cognitively normal (CN), compared to MCI
progression studies. The purpose of the study was to investigate the characteristics
contributing to reversion from MCI to CN and to identify the associated factors with
such reversion.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively identified 200 individuals who
initially diagnosed as MCI and completed the second visit from the National
Research Center for Dementia (NRCD) registry in Korea. Participants underwent
comprehensive clinical and neuropsychological assessments. Factors associated
with reversion were examined by a independent-samples t-test, chi2 test, and logistic
regression. Longitudinal change was examined by a repeated measures analysis of
variance (rANOVA).
RESULTS: Based on the second assessment, 78 (39%) individuals were found to
have reverted to CN (rMCI) and 118 (59%) remained with MCI (sMCI). Four (2%)
progressed to Alzheimer's disease dementia and they were excluded from further
analysis. Over a wide range of socio-demographic, clinical, and neuropsychological
variables, group difference was significant only in neuropsychological tests of
cognitive control. Both groups showed improvement in several neuropsychological
tests, implying a practice effect, but the rMCI group showed greater improvement.
CONCLUSION: Reversion from MCI to CN might not be a false-positive error but a
true recovery from cognitive impairment. Our results suggest that cognitive control
ability may be a characteristic favorable for the restoration of cognitive function.
Therefore, assessment of cognitive control might facilitate the development of
appropriate interventions for MCI as well as prognosis evaluation.
Copyright © 2019 Chung et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Yoon, Hyung-Jun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3087-8853   Kim, Hoowon;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5973-0559 
Lee, Kun Ho; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4144-8162 
Authors Full Name
Chung, Ji-Yeon, Yoon, Hyung-Jun, Kim, Hoowon, Choi, Kyu Yeong, Lee, Jang Jae,
Lee, Kun Ho, Seo, Eun Hyun
Institution
Chung, Ji-Yeon. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.   Chung, Ji-Yeon. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine,
Chosun University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Yoon, Hyung-Jun. Department of Neuropsychiatry, College of Medicine, Chosun
University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Kim, Hoowon. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University, Gwangju,
Korea.
Kim, Hoowon. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chosun
University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Choi, Kyu Yeong. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Jang Jae. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University, Gwangju,
Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. Department of Biomedical Science, College of Natural Sciences,
Chosun University, Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain
Research Institute, Daegu, Korea.
Seo, Eun Hyun. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Seo, Eun Hyun. Department of Premedical Science, College of Medicine, Chosun
University, Gwangju, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
100.
  
Antibody Negative Autoimmune Encephalitis- Does it Differ from Definite One?.
Pradhan S, Das A, Das A, Mulmuley M
Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology. 22(4):401-408, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31736559
CONTEXT: Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) is an emerging cause of non-infective
encephalitis, presentations of which vary widely. Traditionally the diagnosis of AE is
based on detection of antibodies in a patient with clinical picture suggestive of AE.
AIM: To evaluate the clinical characteristics and response to immunotherapy in
patients with antibody negative autoimmune encephalitis and to compare them with
definite cases.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: A prospective follow-up study was done in patients
presenting with presumptive symptoms of AE from January 2017 to January 2019.
The study was done in a tertiary care institute of Northern India.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Demographic and clinical parameters were noted and
relevant investigations for management were done according to well-defined
protocol. The patients were treated with immunomodulatory therapy in the form of
steroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg). They were followed up for
treatment response and relapse at 2 monthly intervals.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: The data was expressed as either proportions or
mean/median. Chi-square test/Independent T test was used to compare antibody
positive and antibody negative group.
RESULTS: Out of 31 patients with presumptive AE, 16 patients tested positive for
autoimmune antibodies (definite AE). Incidences of seizure, behavioral abnormalities,
dementia and altered sensorium were similar between the 2 groups (p > 0.05).
Complete or partial response was seen in all treated patients in both groups with no
significant difference (p 0.716). CSF protein concentration and cellularity were higher
in the definite group although only high protein concentration could reach statistical
significance (p 0.002). Malignancy could be confirmed after extensive search in 2 out
of 16 patients with definite AE and in 1 out of 15 antibody negative AE patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical presentation of antibody negative cases does not differ
significantly from definite ones. Since treatment response is also similar in both the
groups, starting immunotherapy in a patient presenting with presumptive symptoms
of AE, while ruling out other common mimickers, seems to be the need of the hour in
the management of this evolving entity.
Copyright: © 2006 - 2019 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Pradhan, Sunil, Das, Animesh, Das, Ananya, Mulmuley, Madhura
Institution
Pradhan, Sunil. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.   Das, Animesh.
Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences,Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Das, Ananya. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Mulmuley, Madhura. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute
of Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.
  
Nurse-Led Computerized Cognitive Training for Mild Cognitive Impairment: A
Preliminary Study.
Oh MW, Ki YJ, Jeon BH, Kim SY, Oh Y, Yoo S, Cho A, Seo JH, Lee GJ
Rehabilitation Nursing Journal.  2020 04 15.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32304482
PURPOSE: This preliminary study aimed to compare the outcomes of an
occupational therapist-led and a nurse-led computerized cognitive training (CCT) for
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in older adults.
DESIGN: A single-blind randomized controlled trial was performed.
METHODS: Participants 65 years of age and older with MCI were randomly assigned
to a group led by an occupational therapist or by a nurse. Both groups received CCT
for 4 weeks.
FINDINGS: Six participants in the occupational therapist-led group and nine in the
nurse-led group completed CCT. The nurse-led group showed significant
improvement in scores on the Seoul Verbal Learning Test-Elderly's version
immediate recall scores (p = .030) and the Korean-Boston Naming Test (p = .012).
CONCLUSIONS: Nurse-led CCT demonstrated improvement in some language and
memory areas in older adults with MCI.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study supports the idea of educating nurses to use a
CCT program for treating older adults with MCI to improve their cognitive function.
Version ID
1
Status
Publisher
Authors Full Name
Oh, Min Woo, Ki, Young Jin, Jeon, Byoung Hyun, Kim, Si Yeon, Oh, Youngmin, Yoo,
Suwon, Cho, Aeri, Seo, Joo Han, Lee, Goo Joo
Institution
Oh, Min Woo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.   Oh, Min Woo. Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine,
Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Ki, Young Jin. CNC Yullyang Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Jeon, Byoung Hyun. CNC Yullyang Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Si Yeon. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Oh, Youngmin. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Yoo, Suwon. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Cho, Aeri. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Seo, Joo Han. M3 Solution Co., Ltd, Daegu-si, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Goo Joo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Goo Joo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
College of Medicine, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
2.
  
Shenqi Xingnao Granules ameliorates cognitive impairments and Alzheimer's
disease-like pathologies in APP/PS1 mouse model.
Yang CC, Jia XY, Zhang L, Li YL, Zhang ZJ, Li L, Zhang L
Chinese Herbal Medicines. 12(4):421-429, 2020 Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 36120170
Objective: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is along with cognitive decline due to amyloid-
beta (Abeta) plaques, tau hyperphosphorylation, and neuron loss. Shenqi Xingnao
Granules (SQXN), a traditional Chinese medicine, significantly ameliorated the
cognitive function and daily living abilities of patients with AD. However, till date, no
study has investigated the mechanism of action of SQXN on AD. The present study
aimed to verify the effects of SQXN treatment on cognitive impairments and AD-like
pathologies in APP/PS1 mice.
Methods: Four-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic (Tg) mice were randomly divided into
a model group and SQXN-treated (3.5, 7, 14 g/kg per day) groups. Learning-memory
abilities were determined by Morris water maze and object recognition test. All mice
were sacrificed and the brain samples were collected after 75 d. The soluble Abeta
contents were detected by Elisa kit; The levels of expression of NeuN, APP,
phosphorylated tau and related protein were measured by Western blotting; The
inflammation factors were detected by the proinflammatory panel kit.
Results: Four-month-old APP/PS1 mice were administered SQXN by oral gavage for
2.5 months. Using the Morris water maze tests and Novel object recognition, we
found that SQXN restored behavioral deficits in the experimental group of Tg mice
when compared with the controls. SQXN also inhibited neuronal loss (NeuN marker).
SQXN treatment decreased soluble Abeta42 through inhibiting the expression of
sAPPbeta and BACE-1 without regulating full-length amyloid precursor protein (FL
APP). Insulin degrading enzyme (IDE), the Abeta degrading enzyme, were increased
by SQXN. In addition, SQXN reduced hyperphosphorylated tau protein levels and
prevented excessive activation of p-GSK-3beta in the brain of APP/PS1 mice.
Compared with APP/PS1 transgenic negative mice, IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4,
IL-5, IL-6, IL-12p70, KC/GRO and TNF-alpha were not obviously changed in the
brain of 6.5-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic (Tg) mice. However, SQXN could
inhibited the expression of IL-2.
Conclusion: These results demonstrate that SQXN ameliorates the cognitive
impairments in APP/PS1 mice. The possible mechanisms involve its inhibition of
neuronal loss, soluble Abeta deposition, tau hyperphosphorylation and inflammation.
Copyright © 2020 Tianjin Press of Chinese Herbal Medicines. Published by
ELSEVIER B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yang, Cui-Cui, Jia, Xiao-Yu, Zhang, Li, Li, Ya-Li, Zhang, Zhan-Jun, Li, Lin, Zhang,
Lan
InstitutionYang, Cui-Cui. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical
University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center
for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry
of Education, Beijing 100053, China.   Jia, Xiao-Yu. Department of Pharmacy,
Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders,
Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for
Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Li. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Li, Ya-Li. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Zhan-Jun. State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning &
IDG/McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing
100875, China.
Zhang, Zhan-Jun. BABRI Centre, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China.
Li, Lin. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Lan. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical
University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center
for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry
of Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
3.
  
Psychological treatments for people with epilepsy. [Review]
Michaelis R, Tang V, Nevitt SJ, Wagner JL, Modi AC, LaFrance WC Jr, Goldstein LH,
Gandy M, Bresnahan R, Valente K, Donald KA, Reuber M
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 8:CD012081, 2020 Sep 07.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 35653266
BACKGROUND: Given the significant impact epilepsy may have on the health-
related quality of life (HRQOL) of individuals with epilepsy and their families, there is
increasing clinical interest in evidence-based psychological treatments, aimed at
enhancing psychological and seizure-related outcomes for this group. This is an
updated version of the original Cochrane Review published in Issue 10, 2017.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the impact of psychological treatments for people with
epilepsy on HRQOL outcomes.
SEARCH METHODS: For this update, we searched the following databases on 12
August 2019, without language restrictions: Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS
Web), which includes randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials from theSpecialized Registers of Cochrane Review Groups including Epilepsy, the Cochrane
Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to 09
August 2019), and PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, 1887 onwards), and from PubMed,
Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the World Health Organization International Clinical
Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). We screened the references from included studies
and relevant reviews, and contacted researchers in the field for unpublished studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and
quasi-RCTs for this review. HRQOL was the main outcome. For the operational
definition of 'psychological treatments', we included a broad range of skills-based
psychological treatments and education-only interventions designed to improve
HRQOL, seizure frequency and severity, as well as psychiatric and behavioral health
comorbidities for adults and children with epilepsy. These psychological treatments
were compared to treatment as usual (TAU), an active control group (such as social
support group), or antidepressant pharmacotherapy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological
procedures expected by Cochrane.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 36 completed RCTs, with a total of 3526 participants.
Of these studies, 27 investigated skills-based psychological interventions. The
remaining nine studies were education-only interventions. Six studies investigated
interventions for children and adolescents, three studies investigated interventions for
adolescents and adults, and the remaining studies investigated interventions for
adults. Based on satisfactory clinical and methodological homogeneity, we pooled
data from 11 studies (643 participants) that used the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31
(QOLIE-31) or other QOLIE inventories (such as QOLIE-89 or QOLIE-31-P)
convertible to QOLIE-31. We found significant mean changes for the QOLIE-31 total
score and six subscales (emotional well-being, energy and fatigue, overall QoL,
seizure worry, medication effects, and cognitive functioning). The mean changes in
the QOLIE-31 total score (mean improvement of 5.23 points, 95% CI 3.02 to 7.44; P
< 0.001), and the overall QoL score (mean improvement of 5.95 points, 95% CI 3.05
to 8.85; P < 0.001) exceeded the threshold of minimally important change (MIC: total
score: 4.73 points; QoL score: 5.22 points), indicating a clinically meaningful
postintervention improvement in HRQOL. We downgraded the certainty of the
evidence provided by the meta-analysis due to serious risks of bias in some of the
included studies. Consequently, these results provided moderate-certainty evidence
that psychological treatments for adults with epilepsy may enhance overall HRQOL.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Implications for practice: Skills-based psychological
interventions improve HRQOL in adults and adolescents with epilepsy. Adjunctive
use of skills-based psychological treatments for adults and adolescents with epilepsy
may provide additional benefits in HRQOL when these are incorporated into patient-
centered management. We judge the evidence to be of moderate certainty.
IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH: Investigators should strictly adhere to the
CONSORT guidelines to improve the quality of reporting on their interventions. A
thorough description of intervention protocols is necessary to ensure reproducibility.
When examining the effectiveness of psychological treatments for people with
epilepsy, the use of standardized HRQOL inventories, such as the Quality of Life in
Epilepsy Inventories (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, and QOLIE-89) would increase
comparability. Unfortunately, there is a critical gap in pediatric RCTs and RCTs
including people with epilepsy and intellectual disabilities. Finally, in order to increase
the overall quality of RCT study designs, adequate randomization with allocation
concealment and blinded outcome assessment should be pursued. As attrition is
often high in research that requires active participation, an intention-to-treat analysis
should be carried out. Treatment fidelity and treatment competence should also be
assessed. These important dimensions, which are related to 'Risk of bias'
assessment, should always be reported.
Copyright © 2020 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons,
Ltd.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Michaelis, Rosa, Tang, Venus, Nevitt, Sarah J, Wagner, Janelle L, Modi, Avani C,
LaFrance, William Curt Jr, Goldstein, Laura H, Gandy, Milena, Bresnahan, Rebecca,
Valente, Kette, Donald, Kirsten A, Reuber, Markus
Institution
Michaelis, Rosa. Department of Neurology Gemeinschaftskrankenhaus Herdecke,
University of Witten/Herdecke, Herdecke, Germany.   Tang, Venus. Division of
Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hospital Authority, Hong Kong.
Tang, Venus. Department of Clinical Psychology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hospital
Authority, Hong Kong.
Nevitt, Sarah J. Department of Biostatistics, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
Wagner, Janelle L. College of Nursing, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, USA.
Modi, Avani C. Division of Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology, Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine,
Cincinnati, USA.
LaFrance, William Curt Jr. Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, Brown
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
Goldstein, Laura H. Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology
and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
Gandy, Milena. Department of Psychology, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.
Bresnahan, Rebecca. Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, Institute
of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
Valente, Kette. Faculty of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo (HCFMUSP), Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
Donald, Kirsten A. Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
Reuber, Markus. Academic Neurology Unit, University of Sheffield, Royal
Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, UK.
Other Abstract
Publisher
:          (HRQOL)        ,                   .  2017  10         . :      HRQOL    .  :       2019 8 12
. CRS (Cochrane Register of Studies, CRS Web) , Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials( ), MEDLINE(Ovid, 1946 ~ 2019 8)  PycINFO(EBSCO , 1887)
 .inicalTrials.gov   (WHO)    (ICTRP).         ,        .   :     (RCT) RCT  . HRQOL  . ' '   ,
HRQOL,                ,            .      (TAU),  ( ),    .    :        .  :  3526   36   RCT  .    27
.  9     .  .      6, .     3,       .          31(QOLIE-31)  QOLIE-31   QOLIE (QOLIE-89
QOLIE-31-P)  11 (643 )   . QOLIE-31  6  (  ,   ,  QoL,  ,   ,   )     . QOLIE-31 (5.23, 95%
CI 3.02~7.44, P < 0.001),  QoL (5.95, 95% CI 3.05~8.85, P < 0.001)        (MIC: )  .
4.73, QoL : 5.22)) HRQOL         .               .  ,         HRQOL         .  :   :          HRQOL .
             HRQOL      .      .   :               .         .       ,  (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, QOLIE-
89)    HRQOL      .          RCT RCT   .  , RCT                 .             .      . ' '         .
Language: Korean   Publisher
:       (health-related quality of life; HRQOL)  ,      ,    ,    ,  .        10, 2017 . :
HRQOL.  : 12  2019,   ,          :      (CRS Web),    -             ,            (CENTRAL)
MEDLINE (Ovid 1946 09  2019) PsycINFO (EBSCOhost 1887 ) PubMed Embase
ClinicalTrials.gov           (ICTRP)  .         .   :       (randomised controlled trials; RCTs) -
RCT     .   HRQOL .    <<  >>,         HRQoL,  (seizure)           .   , (treatment as usual;
TAU),   (   ),   -   .     :        .  : 36 RCT  , 3526     .   , 27     .  . , ,     .      ,  11 (643   )     -
31 (QOLIE-31)     QOLIE ( QOLIE-89  QOLIE-31-P)  QOLIE-31  ,    .       QOLIE-31  (
 (well-being) ,  , QoL  ,   ,    )   .     QOLIE-31 (   5.23 95% CI 3.02 7.44 P <0.001) QoL
  (   5.95 95% CI 3.05 8.85 P < 0.001)   : (MIC:  : 4.73  QoL: 5.22  ),     HRQOL .
(meta-analysis)     (bias)  ,     .  ,             HRQOL    .       :   :   , HRQOL   .
HRQOL      -   .     .    :    CONSORT         .            .       ,  HRQOL     (QOLIE-31
QOLIE-31-P QOLIE-89)     .    RCT    RCT      .  ,       , RCT              .           ,(attrition) ,   (intention-to-treat)  .       .  ,    <<   (bias)>>  ,    .
Language: Persian
Publisher
CONTEXTE: Etant donne l'impact significatif que l'epilepsie peut avoir sur la qualite
de vie liee a la sante (QVLS) des personnes epileptiques et de leurs familles, il existe
un interet clinique croissant pour les traitements psychologiques bases sur des
donnees probantes visant a ameliorer les criteres de jugement psychologiques et lies
aux crises pour ce groupe. Ceci est une version mise a jour de la revue Cochrane
originale publiee dans le numero 10, 2017.OBJECTIFS: Evaluer l'impact des
traitements psychologiques pour les personnes epileptiques sur la QVLS.
STRATEGIE DE RECHERCHE DOCUMENTAIRE: Pour cette mise a jour, nous
avons effectue des recherches dans les bases de donnees suivantes et sans
restrictions de langues jusqu'au 12 aout 2019: Le Registre Cochrane des etudes
(CRS Web), qui comprend des essais controles randomises ou quasi randomises
provenant des registres specialises des groupes de revues Cochrane, dont celui sur
l'epilepsie, le registre Cochrane des essais controles (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid,
de 1946 au 9 aout 2019) et PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, a partir de 1887), ainsi que
PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov et le Systeme d'enregistrement international des
essais cliniques (ICTRP) de l'OMS. Nous avons examine les references des etudes
incluses et des revues pertinentes, et nous avons contacte des chercheurs dans le
domaine pour des etudes non publiees. CRITERES DE SELECTION: Nous avons
pris en compte les essais controles randomises (ECR) et les quasi-ECR pour cette
revue. La QVLS en a ete le principal critere de jugement. Pour la definition
operationnelle de << traitement psychologiques >>, nous avons inclus un large
eventail de traitements psychologiques bases sur les competences, et d'interventions
educatives concues pour ameliorer la QVLS, la frequence et la gravite des crises,
ainsi que les comorbidites psychiatriques et comportementales pour les adultes et
les enfants epileptiques. Ces traitements psychologiques ont ete compares au
traitement habituel (TH), a un groupe temoin actif (tel qu'un groupe de soutien social)
ou a une pharmacotherapie antidepressive. RECUEIL ET ANALYSE DES
DONNEES: Nous avons suivi les procedures methodologiques standard definies par
Cochrane. RESULTATS PRINCIPAUX: Nous avons inclus 36 ECR termines, avec
un total de 3 526 participants. Parmi ces etudes, 27 portaient sur des interventions
psychologiques basees sur les competences. Les neuf autres etudes etaient des
interventions a caractere educatif uniquement. Six etudes ont porte sur les
interventions aupres des enfants et des adolescents, trois sur les interventions
aupres des adolescents et des adultes, et les autres sur les interventions aupres des
adultes. Sur la base d'une homogeneite clinique et methodologique satisfaisante,
nous avons mis en commun les donnees de 11 etudes (643 participants) qui ont
utilise le questionnaire sur la qualite de vie en cas d'epilepsie (QOLIE-31) ou d'autres
questionnaires QOLIE (tels que QOLIE-89 ou QOLIE-31-P) convertibles en QOLIE-
31. Nous avons constate des changements moyens significatifs pour le score total de
QOLIE-31 et pour six sous-echelles (bien-etre emotionnel, energie et fatigue, qualite
de vie globale, inquietudes liees aux crises, effets des medicaments et
fonctionnement cognitif). Les changements moyens du score total de QOLIE-31
(amelioration moyenne de 5,23 points, IC a 95 %, de 3,02 a 7,44 ; P < 0,001), et du
score global de QV (amelioration moyenne de 5,95 points, IC a 95 %, de 3,05 a 8,85
; P < 0,001) ont depasse le seuil de changement important minimal (MIC) (MIC :
score total : 4,73 points ; score de la qualite de vie: 5,22 points), ce qui indique une
amelioration cliniquement significative de la qualite de vie liee a la sante apres
l'intervention. Nous avons declasse le niveau de confiance des donnees probantes
fournies par la meta-analyse en raison de risques serieux de biais dans certaines
des etudes incluses. Par consequent, la valeur probante de ces resultats etait
moderee a propos de l'amelioration de la qualite de vie globale chez les adultes
epileptiques par les traitements psychologiques.CONCLUSIONS DES AUTEURS:
Implications pour la pratique: Les interventions psychologiques basees sur les
competences ameliorent la qualite de vie des adultes et des adolescents
epileptiques. L'utilisation complementaire de traitements psychologiques bases surles competences chez les adultes et les adolescents epileptiques pourrait apporter
des avantages supplementaires en matiere de qualite de vie liee a la sante lorsque
ceux-ci sont integres dans une gestion centree sur le patient. Nous estimons que le
niveau de confiance des donnees probantes est modere. Implications pour la
recherche: Les enqueteurs doivent se conformer strictement aux recommandations
CONSORT afin d'ameliorer la qualite des rapports sur leurs interventions. Une
description complete des protocoles d'intervention est necessaire pour assurer la
reproductibilite. Lors de l'examen de l'efficacite des traitements psychologiques pour
les personnes souffrant d'epilepsie, l'utilisation de questionnaires standardises sur la
qualite de vie, tels que les questionnaires sur la qualite de vie dans l'epilepsie
(QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P et QOLIE-89), permettrait d'accroitre la comparabilite.
Malheureusement, il existe une lacune importante dans les ECR pediatriques et les
ECR incluant les personnes souffrant d'epilepsie et de handicap intellectuel. Enfin,
afin d'ameliorer la qualite globale des plans d'etude des ECR, il convient de
poursuivre une randomisation adequate avec assignation secrete et evaluation des
criteres de jugement en aveugle. Comme le taux d'attrition est souvent eleve dans
les recherches qui necessitent une participation active, il convient de proceder a une
analyse des intentions de traitement. La fidelite au traitement et la competence en
matiere de traitement doivent egalement etre evaluees. Ces dimensions importantes,
qui sont liees a l'evaluation du << risque de biais >>, devraient toujours etre
signalees.
Language: French
Publisher
ANTECEDENTES: Debido al impacto significativo que podria tener la epilepsia sobre
la calidad de vida relacionada con la salud (CdVRS) en los individuos con epilepsia y
sus familias, hay un creciente interes clinico en los tratamientos psicologicos
basados en evidencia, dirigidos a mejorar los desenlaces psicologicos y
relacionados con las crisis para este grupo de personas. Esta es una version
actualizada de la revision Cochrane original publicada en el numero 10,
2017.OBJETIVOS: Evaluar los efectos de los tratamientos psicologicos para los
pacientes con epilepsia en los resultados de la CdVRS. METODOS DE BUSQUEDA:
Para esta actualizacion, se realizaron busquedas en las siguientes bases de datos el
12 de agosto de 2019 sin restricciones de idioma: La Cochrane Register of Studies
(CRS Web),que incluye ensayos controlados aleatorizados o cuasialeatorizados del
registro especializado de los Grupos Cochrane de Revision de Epilepsia, Cochrane
Central de Ensayos Controlados (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 a 9 de agosto
de 2019), y PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, 1887 en adelante), y de PubMed, EMBASE,
ClinicalTrials.gov y la plataforma de registros internacionales de ensayos clinicos
(ICTRP) de la Organizacion Mundial de la Salud. Se examinaron las referencias de
los estudios incluidos y las revisiones pertinentes, y se establecio contacto con los
investigadores del tema para obtener estudios no publicados. CRITERIOS DE
SELECCION: Se consideraron los ensayos controlados aleatorizados (ECA) y los
ensayos controlados cuasialeatorizados para esta revision. La CdVRS fue el
desenlace principal. Para la definicion operativa de "tratamientos psicologicos", se
incluyo un rango amplio de tratamientos psicologicos basados en habilidades e
intervenciones solo educativas disenadas para mejorar la CdVRS, la frecuencia y la
gravedad de las crisis, y las comorbilidades psiquiatricas y conductuales para los
adultos y los ninos con epilepsia. Estos tratamientos psicologicos se compararon con
el tratamiento habitual (TH), un grupo de control activo (como el grupo de apoyo
social) o la farmacoterapia antidepresiva. OBTENCION Y ANALISIS DE LOS
DATOS: Se utilizaron los procedimientos metodologicos estandares previstos por
Cochrane.RESULTADOS PRINCIPALES: Se incluyeron 36 ECA completos con
3526 participantes. De estos, 27 estudios investigaron intervenciones psicologicas
basadas en habilidades. Los nueve estudios restantes fueron intervenciones solo
educativas. Seis estudios investigaron intervenciones para ninos y adolescentes,
tres estudios investigaron intervenciones para adolescentes y adultos, y los
restantes investigaron intervenciones en adultos. De acuerdo con una
homogeneidad clinica y metodologica satisfactoria, se agruparon los datos de 11estudios (643 participantes) que utilizaron la escala para medir la calidad de vida en
la epilepsia Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31 (QOLIE-31) u otros listados QOLIE (como
el QOLIE-89 o el QOLIE-31-P) convertibles a QOLIE-31. Se encontraron cambios
medios significativos para la puntuacion total de la QOLIE-31 y seis subescalas
(bienestar emocional, energia y fatiga, CdV general, preocupacion sobre la crisis,
efectos de la medicacion y funcion cognitiva). Los cambios medios en la puntuacion
total de la QOLIE-31 (mejora media de 5,23 puntos, IC del 95%: 3,02 a 7,44; P <
0,001), y la puntuacion global de la CdV (mejora media de 5,95 puntos, IC del 95%:
3,05 a 8,85; P < 0,001) superaron el umbral de cambio minimo importante (CMI:
puntuacion total: 4,73 puntos; puntuacion de CdV: 5,22 puntos), lo que indica una
mejoria posintervencion clinicamente significativa en la CdVRS. La certeza de la
evidencia aportada por el metanalisis se redujo debido a riesgos graves de sesgo en
algunos de los estudios incluidos. En consecuencia, estos resultados aportaron
evidencia de certeza moderada de que los tratamientos psicologicos para los adultos
con epilepsia pueden mejorar la CdVRS general.CONCLUSIONES DE LOS
AUTORES: Implicaciones para la practica: Las intervenciones psicologicas basadas
en habilidades mejoran la CdVRS en adultos y adolescentes con epilepsia. El uso
adyuvante de terapias psicologicas basadas en habilidades para los adultos y
adolescentes con epilepsia podria proporcionar beneficios adicionales a la CdVRS
cuando se incorporan a un tratamiento centrado en el paciente. Se considero que la
evidencia era de certeza moderada. Implicaciones para la investigacion: Los
investigadores deben adherirse estrictamente a las guias CONSORT para mejorar la
calidad del informe sobre las intervenciones. Una descripcion minuciosa de los
protocolos de intervencion es necesaria para asegurar la reproducibilidad. Cuando
se examina la efectividad de los tratamientos psicologicos para los pacientes con
epilepsia, el uso de listados estandarizados de CdVRS (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, y
QOLIE-89) aumentaria la comparabilidad. Por desgracia, existe una laguna critica en
los ECA pediatricos y ECA que incluyen a personas con epilepsia y discapacidades
intelectuales. Finalmente, para aumentar la calidad general de los disenos de
estudio de ECA, debe aplicarse una asignacion al azar adecuada con ocultacion de
la asignacion y una evaluacion de resultados cegada. Debido a que la desercion a
menudo es alta en la investigacion que requiere la participacion activa, debe
realizarse un analisis de intencion de tratar. Tambien deben evaluarse la fidelidad al
tratamiento y la competencia del tratamiento. Estas importantes dimensiones,
relacionadas con la evaluacion del "riesgo de sesgo", deben ser siempre
comunicadas.
Language: Spanish
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
4.
  
Chinese herbal medicine Qinggongshoutao for the treatment of amnestic mild
cognitive impairment: A 52-week randomized controlled trial.
Tian J, Shi J, Wei M, Ni J, Fang Z, Gao J, Wang H, Yao H, Zhang J, Li J, Min M, Su
L, Sun X, Wang B, Wang B, Yang F, Zou Y, Hu Y, Lin Y, Xu G, Li K, Li L, Zhen H, Xu
J, Chen K, Wang Y, CHARM study group
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions. 5:441-449,2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31517031
INTRODUCTION: This randomized, double-blind trial aimed to test effect of a
Chinese herbal medicine, Qinggongshoutao (QGST) pill, on the cognition and
progression of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI).
METHODS: Patients with aMCI were randomly assigned to receive QGST, Ginkgo
biloba extract, or placebo for 52 weeks. The primary outcome measures were
progression to possible or probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and change in
Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale scores; secondary
outcome measures included assessments for cognition and function.
RESULTS: Total 350 patients were enrolled, possible or probable AD developed in
10. There were significant differences in the probability of progression to AD in the
QGST group (1.15%) compared with placebo group (10%). There was significant
difference in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale scores in
favor of QGST over the placebo group. Secondary outcome measure (Mini-Mental
State Examination) also showed benefit in QGST at end point.
DISCUSSION: In patients with aMCI, QGST showed lower AD progression rate than
placebo at 8.85%, and may have benefit on global cognition.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Tian, Jinzhou, Shi, Jing, Wei, Mingqing, Ni, Jingnian, Fang, Zhiyong, Gao, Jinyu,
Wang, Heng, Yao, Hongjun, Zhang, Jintao, Li, Juntao, Min, Min, Su, Likai, Sun,
Xiuqiao, Wang, Baoai, Wang, Baoshen, Yang, Faming, Zou, Yong, Hu, Yueqiang,
Lin, Yaming, Xu, Guangyin, Li, Kang, Li, Lei, Zhen, Hui, Xu, Jinyan, Chen, Keji,
Wang, Yongyan, CHARM study group
Institution
Tian, Jinzhou. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China.   Shi, Jing. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Wei, Mingqing. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of
Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Ni, Jingnian. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China.
Fang, Zhiyong. Department of Neurology, Xiangyang Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Xiangyang, Henan Province, China.
Gao, Jinyu. Department of Neurology, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China.
Wang, Heng. Department of Neurology, Tianjin Nankai Hospital, Tianjin, China.
Yao, Hongjun. Department of Neurology, Yuncheng Central Hospital, Yuncheng,
Shanxi Province, China.
Zhang, Jintao. Department of Neurology, 88th Hospital of PLA, Taian, Shandong
Province, China.
Li, Juntao. Department of Neurology, Handan Central Hospital, Handan, Hebei
Province, China.
Min, Min. Department of Neurology, Tengzhou Central People's Hospital,
Zaozhuang, Shandong Province, China.
Su, Likai. Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Hebei University,
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, China.
Sun, Xiuqiao. Department of Neurology, First Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, China.
Wang, Baoai. Department of Neurology, Shanxi Fenyang Hospital, Lvliang, Shanxi
Province, China.
Wang, Baoshen. Department of Neurology, Luohe Hospital of Chinese Medicine,
Luohe, Henan Province, China.Yang, Faming. Department of Neurology, Third Hospital of Shanxi Medical College,
Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, China.
Zou, Yong. Department of Integrated TCM & Western Medicine, Qindao University
Medical College Affiliated Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital, Yantai, Shandong Province,
China.
Hu, Yueqiang. Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi
University of Chinese Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi Province, China.
Lin, Yaming. Department of Neurology, Yunnan Provincial Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Kunming, Yunnan Province, China.
Xu, Guangyin. Department of Neurology, The People's Hospital of Linyi, Linyi,
Shandong Province, China.
Li, Kang. Department of Health Statistics Harbin Medical University, Harbin,
Heilongjiang Province, China.
Li, Lei. Pharmaceutical Research and Clinical Evaluation Center of China Association
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Zhen, Hui. Pharmaceutical Research and Clinical Evaluation Center of China
Association of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Xu, Jinyan. Beijing Kangpaite Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Beijing, China.
Chen, Keji. Institute of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
Wang, Yongyan. Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing China.
Comments
Erratum in (EIN)
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
5.
  
A pilot feasibility randomized controlled trial on combining mind-body physical
exercise, cognitive training, and nurse-led risk factor modification to reduce cognitive
decline among older adults with mild cognitive impairment in primary care.
Xu Z, Zhang D, Lee ATC, Sit RWS, Wong C, Lee EKP, Yip BHK, Tiu JYS, Lam LCW,
Wong SYS
PeerJ. 8:e9845, 2020.
[Clinical Trial]
UI: 33194354
OBJECTIVES: To examine the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of (1)
combining cognitive training, mind-body physical exercise, and nurse-led risk factor
modification (CPR), (2) nurse-led risk factor modification (RFM), and (3) health
advice (HA) on reducing cognitive decline among older adults with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI).
METHODS: It was a 3-arm open-labeled pilot randomized controlled trial in the
primary care setting in Hong Kong. Nineteen older adults with MCI were randomized
to either CPR (n = 6), RFM (n = 7), or HA (n = 6) for 6 months. The primary outcome
was the feasibility of the study. Secondary outcomes included the Alzheimer's
Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog), the Montreal Cognitive
Assessment Hong Kong version (HK-MoCA), the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR),the Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD), quality of life, depression, anxiety,
physical activity, health service utilization, and diet.
RESULTS: Nineteen out the 98 potential patients were recruited, with a recruitment
rate of 19% (95% CI [12-29]%, P = 0.243). The adherence rate of risk factor
modification was 89% (95% CI [65-98]%, P = 0.139) for CPR group and 86% (95%
CI [63-96]%, P = 0.182) for RFM group. In the CPR group, 53% (95% CI [36-70]%, P
= 0.038) of the Tai Chi exercise sessions and 54% (95% CI [37-71]%, P = 0.051) of
cognitive sessions were completed. The overall dropout rate was 11% (95% CI [2-
34]%, P = 0.456). Significant within group changes were observed in HK-MoCA in
RFM (4.50 +/- 2.59, P = 0.008), cost of health service utilization in CPR (-4000,
quartiles: -6800 to -200, P = 0.043), fish and seafood in HA (-1.10 +/- 1.02, P =
0.047), and sugar in HA (2.69 +/- 1.80, P = 0.015). Group x time interactions were
noted on HK-MoCA favoring the RFM group (P = 0.000), DAD score favoring CPR
group (P = 0.027), GAS-20 favoring CPR group (P = 0.026), number of servings of
fish and seafood (P = 0.004), and sugar (P < 0.001) ate per day.
CONCLUSIONS: In this pilot study, RFM and the multi-domain approach CPR were
feasible and had preliminary beneficial effects in older adults with MCI in primary
care setting in Hong Kong.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR1800015324).
Copyright ©2020 Xu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Xu, Zijun, Zhang, Dexing, Lee, Allen T C, Sit, Regina W S, Wong, Carmen, Lee, Eric
K P, Yip, Benjamin H K, Tiu, Jennifer Y S, Lam, Linda C W, Wong, Samuel Y S
Institution
Xu, Zijun. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of Public
Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Zhang, Dexing. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lee, Allen T C. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Sit, Regina W S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Wong, Carmen. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lee, Eric K P. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Yip, Benjamin H K. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School
of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Tiu, Jennifer Y S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lam, Linda C W. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Wong, Samuel Y S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School
of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
6.
  
Depression after Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: A Systematic Review. [Review]
Tang WK, Wang L, Kwok Chu Wong G, Ungvari GS, Yasuno F, Tsoi KKF, Kim JS
Journal of Stroke. 22(1):11-28, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32027789
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Depression is common and debilitating illness
accompanying many neurological disorders including non-traumatic subarachnoid
hemorrhage (SAH). The aim of this systematic review was to identify and critically
appraise all published studies that have reported the frequency, severity and time
course of depression after SAH, the factors associated with its development and the
impact of depression on patients' quality of life after SAH.
METHODS: The PubMed database was searched for studies published in English
that recruited at least 40 patients (>18 years old) after SAH who were also diagnosed
with depression.
RESULTS: Altogether 55 studies covering 6,327 patients met study entry criteria.
The frequency of depression ranged from 0% to 61.7%, with a weighted proportion of
28.1%. Depression remained common even several years after the index SAH.
Depression after SAH was associated with female sex, premorbid depression,
anxiety, substance use disorders or any psychiatric disorders, and coping styles.
Comorbid cognitive impairment, fatigue, and physical disability also increased the
risk of depression. Aneurysmal SAH and infarction may be related to depression as
well. Depression reduces the quality of life and life satisfaction in patients after SAH.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression is common after SAH and seems to persist. Further
research is needed to clarify its time course and identify the neuroendocrine and
neurochemical factors and brain circuits associated with the development of post-
SAH depression. Randomized controlled treatment trials targeting SAH-related
depression are warranted.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Tang, Wai Kwong, Wang, Lisha, Kwok Chu Wong, George, Ungvari, Gabor S,
Yasuno, Fumihiko, Tsoi, Kelvin K F, Kim, Jong S
Institution
Tang, Wai Kwong. Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, China.   Wang, Lisha. Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Kwok Chu Wong, George. Department of Surgery, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, China.
Ungvari, Gabor S. University of Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, Australia.
Ungvari, Gabor S. Division of Psychiatry, Medical School, University of Western
Australia, Crawley, Australia.
Yasuno, Fumihiko. Department of Psychiatry, National Center for Geriatrics and
Gerontology, Obu, Japan.
Tsoi, Kelvin K F. Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, ChineseUniversity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Tsoi, Kelvin K F. Stanley Ho Big Data Decision Analytics Research Centre, Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Kim, Jong S. Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
7.
  
Prevalence of Obesity in India and Its Neurological Implications: A Multifactor
Analysis of a Nationwide Cross-Sectional Study.
Venkatrao M, Nagarathna R, Majumdar V, Patil SS, Rathi S, Nagendra H
Annals of Neurosciences. 27(3-4):153-161, 2020 Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34556954
BACKGROUND: India is undergoing a rapid epidemiological transition, from
underweight to overweight/obese population. Obesity is a major risk factor in type 2
diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, and is also implicated as a factor in
neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. A robust, pan-Indian estimate of
obesity is not yet available.
PURPOSE: This study estimates the pan-Indian prevalence of obesity, stratified
across nonmodifiable (age and gender) and modifiable (education and physical
activity levels) factors, and across zones and urban/rural.
METHODOLOGY: Data for 1,00,531 adults from a nationwide randomized cluster
sample survey (Niyantrita Madhumeha Bharata 2017, phase 1) were analyzed.
Obesity was determined using body mass index, and cross-tabulations were
calculated across zones, age, gender, education, physical activity, and area. To
determine statistical significance, t-tests were used. The odds of obesity within each
category of the various factors were calculated using binary logistic regression.
RESULTS: Prevalence of obesity in India is 40.3%. Zonal variations were seen as
follows: south highest at 46.51% and east lowest at 32.96%. Obesity was higher
among women than men (41.88% vs. 38.67%), urban than rural (44.17% vs.
36.08%), and over 40 than under 40 (45.81% vs. 34.58%). More education implied a
higher obesity (44.6% college vs. 38% uneducated), as did lowered physical activity
(43.71% inactive vs. 32.56% vigorously active). The odds ratio for physical activity
was 3.83, stronger than age (1.58), education (1.4), urban (1.3), and gender (1.2).
CONCLUSION: Obesity levels in India are very high, across all zones. The odds of
being obese increases with age, and is higher among women and among urban
dwellers. Obesity is the highest among aging urban men and women who are college
educated and are sedentary. Physical activity and aging are the strongest
determinants of obesity. Given the high cost of obesity in terms of type 2 diabetes,
cardiovascular diseases, and Alzheimer's disease, urgent public health measures are
necessary to reduce its impact.
Copyright © 2021 Indian Academy of Neurosciences (IAN).
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Venkatrao, Murali; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6677-045X 
Authors Full Name
Venkatrao, Murali, Nagarathna, Raghuram, Majumdar, Vijaya, Patil, Suchitra S,
Rathi, Sunanda, Nagendra, Hongasandra
Institution
Venkatrao, Murali. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University,
Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.   Nagarathna, Raghuram.
Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani,
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Majumdar, Vijaya. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Patil, Suchitra S. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Rathi, Sunanda. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Nagendra, Hongasandra. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University,
Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
8.
  
Ameliorative Effects of Different Transcranial Electrical Stimulation Paradigms on the
Novel Object Recognition Task in a Rat Model of Alzheimer Disease.
Zarifkar AH, Zarifkar A, Nami M, Rafati A, Aligholi H, Vafaee F
Galen Medical Journal. 8:e1440, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34466513
BACKGROUND: Treatment of Alzheimer as a disease that is associated with
cognitive impairment has been associated with some restrictions. Recently,
researchers have focused on non-pharmacological treatments, including non-
invasive stimulation of the brain by transcranial electrical stimulation (tES). Four main
paradigms of transcranial electrical current include transcranial direct current
stimulation (tDCS), transcranial alternative current stimulation (tACS), transcranial
random noise stimulation (tRNS), transcranial pulse current stimulation (tPCS). The
tDCS is a possible new therapeutic option for patients with cognitive impairment,
including Alzheimer disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was done on Sprague-Dawley male rats
weighing 250-270 g. to develop Alzheimer's model, the cannula was implanted
bilaterally into the hippocampus. Abeta 25-35 (5mug/ 2.5microl/day) was
microinjected bilaterally for 4 days. Then, an electrical stimulation paradigm was
applied to the animal for 6 days. Animal cognitive capacity was evaluated on day 11
and 12 by novel object recognition (NOR) test.
RESULTS: Our results showed that application of tDCS; tACS; tRNS and tPCS
reversed beta-amyloid-induced impairment (P<0.05). The tRNS Group spent total
exploration time around the objects compared to other groups (P<0.05). There wasno significant difference between the four different paradigms in discrimination ratio
and the percentage of total exploration time.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study showed that the use of multiple sessions of
different tES paradigms could improve Abeta-induced memory impairment in the
NOR test. Therefore, based on evidence, it can be expected that in addition to using
tDCS, other stimulatory paradigms may also be considered in the treatment of AD.
Copyright© 2019, Galen Medical Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarifkar, Amir Hossein, Zarifkar, Asadollah, Nami, Mohammad, Rafati, Ali, Aligholi,
Hadi, Vafaee, Farzaneh
Institution
Zarifkar, Amir Hossein. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Zarifkar, Asadollah. Department of
Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Nami, Mohammad. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Nami, Mohammad. DANA Brain Health Institute, Iranian Neuroscience Society, Fars
Chapter, Shiraz, Iran.
Rafati, Ali. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Aligholi, Hadi. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical Sciences
and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
9.
  
Effect of Cuscuta epithymum Acquainted with Risperidone on the Improvement of
Clinical Symptoms and Cognitive Impairment in Patients with Schizophrenia: A
Triple-Blind Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial.
Parvizi M, Fadai F, Khodaei-Ardakani MR, Amin G, Abdi L, Noroozi M, Ansari I
Galen Medical Journal. 8:e1334, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34466495
BACKGROUND: Cuscuta epithymum (CE) is an established medicinal herb utilized
for treating psychosis in Persian medicine. The aim of this study was to investigate
the effect of CE combined with risperidone on the clinical symptoms and the
cognitive impairment in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this triple-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial,
the intervention group received a dose of 500 mg of CE in the form of a capsule to be
taken twice a day accompanied by an appropriate dose of risperidone. The control
group was presented with a placebo identical to that of the CE capsule plus theallocated dose of risperidone. The PANSS and SCoRS questionnaires were used to
assess the status of subjects prior to the initiation of the intervention as well as being
put to use at the end of the second, fourth, and eighth week post-intervention.
Registering and recording intel concerning positive and negative symptoms felt by
participants (PANNS), and a test to assess the cognitive impairment of the
individuals.
RESULTS: After eight weeks of treatment, all negative and positive symptoms
besides hostility and somatic concern exhibited a significant improvement in the CE
group (P <0.05). In contrast, the CE placebo group displayed no substantial
improvement in the cases of the positive, negative and general symptoms (P>0.05)
regarding cognitive impairment, after eight weeks of treatment, all symptoms were
greatly improved in the CE group (P<0.05), while the effect of the placebo on the
patients cognitive impairment remained mostly stationary (P>0.05). Consequently,
after eight weeks after the intervention, we can determine that the CE treatment has
been noticeably more effective at improving positive, negative and cognitive
symptoms of patients with schizophrenia.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrated that CE, possessing possible
antioxidant and neuroprotective properties, safely improved the positive and negative
symptoms, and cognitive impairment of patients with schizophrenia.
Copyright© 2019, Galen Medical Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Parvizi, Maedeh, Fadai, Farbod, Khodaei-Ardakani, Moahammad Reza, Amin,
Gholamreza, Abdi, Leila, Noroozi, Mehdi, Ansari, Iman
Institution
Parvizi, Maedeh. Department of Psychiatry, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Fadai, Farbod. Department of Psychiatry,
University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Khodaei-Ardakani, Moahammad Reza. Department of Psychiatry, University of
Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Amin, Gholamreza. Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Abdi, Leila. Department of Traditional Medicine, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Noroozi, Mehdi. Department of Psychiatry, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Ansari, Iman. Medical Students Research Committee, Shahed University, Tehran,
Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
10.
  
Dalteparin as a Novel Therapeutic Agent to Prevent Diabetic Encephalopathy by
Targeting Oxidative Stress and Inflammation.Zeinivand M, Nahavandi A, Baluchnejadmojarad T, Roghani M, Golab F
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(6):795-804, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33850616
INTRODUCTION: Hepcidin is the main modulator of systemic iron metabolism, and
its role in the brain has been clarified recently. Studies have shown that hepcidin
plays an important role in neuronal iron load and inflammation. This issue is of
significance because neuronal iron load and inflammation are pathophysiological
processes that are highly linked to neurodegeneration. Moreover, the activity of
hepcidin has recently been manipulated to recover the neuronal impairment caused
by brain inflammation in animal models.
METHODS: Streptozotocin (STZ) was used to induce type 1 diabetes. Male Wistar
rats (n = 40) with a weight range of 200-250 g were divided into control, diabetic,
diabetic + insulin, and diabetic + dalteparin groups. Dalteparin (100 mg/kg IP) and
insulin (100 mg/kg SC) were administered for 8 weeks. At the end of the experiment,
Y-maze and passive avoidance tasks were carried out. The animals were perfused
randomly and their hippocampal tissue was isolated for the analysis of markers such
as lipid peroxidation like Malondialdehyde (MDA), hepcidin expression, iron, and
ferritin. Blood samples were taken for the measurement of serum inflammatory
cytokine Interleukin (IL)-6.
RESULTS: The findings indicated that treatment with dalteparin reduced IL-6, MDA,
ferritin, and hepcidin expression in diabetic rats compared to treatment with insulin
(P<0.05). Moreover, treatment with dalteparin did not decrease the iron level or
prevented its decline.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with dalteparin improved the cognitive dysfunctions and
symptoms of Alzheimer disease in STZ-induced diabetic rats by appropriately
modulating and reducing oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. This may enhance
the existing knowledge of therapeutics to reduce cognitive impairment in diabetes
and is suggested to be a potential therapeutic agent in diabetes.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Zeinivand, Motahareh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0556-9525   Nahavandi,
Arezo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5317-6056 
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2703-728X 
Roghani, Mehrdad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9209-8484 
Golab, Fereshteh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2829-7881 
Authors Full Name
Zeinivand, Motahareh, Nahavandi, Arezo, Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht,
Roghani, Mehrdad, Golab, Fereshteh
Institution
Zeinivand, Motahareh. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kermanshah
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.   Nahavandi, Arezo. Department
of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Iran, Iran.
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine,
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Iran, Iran.
Roghani, Mehrdad. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shahed
University, Tehran, Iran.
Golab, Fereshteh. Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
11.
  
Association of Variants in PINX1 and TREM2 With Late-Onset Alzheimer Disease.
Tosto G, Vardarajan B, Sariya S, Brickman AM, Andrews H, Manly JJ, Schupf N,
Reyes-Dumeyer D, Lantigua R, Bennett DA, De Jager PL, Mayeux R
JAMA Neurology. 76(8):942-948, 2019 Aug 01.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31058951
IMPORTANCE: Genetic causes of late-onset Alzheimer disease (LOAD) are not
completely explained by known genetic loci. Whole-exome and whole-genome
sequencing can improve the understanding of the causes of LOAD and provide initial
steps required to identify potential therapeutic targets.
OBJECTIVE: To identify the genetic loci for LOAD across different ethnic groups.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This multicenter cohort study was
designed to analyze whole-exome sequencing data from a multiethnic cohort using a
transethnic gene-kernel association test meta-analysis, adjusted for sex, age, and
principal components, to identify genetic variants associated with LOAD. A meta-
analysis was conducted on the results of 2 independent studies of whole-exome and
whole-genome sequence data from individuals of European ancestry. This group of
European American, African American, and Caribbean Hispanic individuals
participating in an urban population-based study were the discovery cohort; the
additional cohorts included affected individuals and control participants from 2
publicly available data sets. Replication was achieved using independent data sets
from Caribbean Hispanic families with multiple family members affected by LOAD
and the International Genetics of Alzheimer Project.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Late-onset Alzheimer disease.
RESULTS: The discovery cohort included 3595 affected individuals, while the
additional cohorts included 5931 individuals with LOAD and 5504 control participants.
Of 3916 individuals in the discovery cohort, we included 3595 individuals (1397 with
LOAD and 2198 cognitively healthy controls; 2451 [68.2%] women; mean [SD] age,
80.3 [6.83] years). Another 321 individuals (8.2%) were excluded because of non-
LOAD diagnosis, age younger than 60 years, missing covariates, duplicate data, or
genetic outlier status. Gene-based tests that compared affected individuals (n =
7328) and control participants (n = 7702) and included only rare and uncommon
variants annotated as having moderate-high functional effect supported PINX1
(8p23.1) as a locus with gene-wide significance (P = 2.81 x 10-6) after meta-analysis
across the 3 studies. The PINX1 finding was replicated using data from the family-
based study and the International Genetics of Alzheimer Project. Full meta-analysis
of discovery and replication cohorts reached a P value of 6.16 x 10-7 for PINX1 (in
7620 affected individuals vs 7768 control participants). We also identified TREM2 in
an  annotation model that prioritized highly deleterious variants with a combined
annotation dependent depletion greater than 20 (P= 1.0 x 10-7).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This gene-based, transethnic approach
identified PINX1, a gene involved in telomere integrity, and TREM2, a gene with a
product of an immune receptor found in microglia, as associated with LOAD. Both
genes have well-established roles in aging and neurodegeneration.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINEAuthors Full Name
Tosto, Giuseppe, Vardarajan, Badri, Sariya, Sanjeev, Brickman, Adam M, Andrews,
Howard, Manly, Jennifer J, Schupf, Nicole, Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly, Lantigua, Rafael,
Bennett, David A, De Jager, Phillip L, Mayeux, Richard
Institution
Tosto, Giuseppe. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.   Tosto, Giuseppe. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Tosto, Giuseppe. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Vardarajan, Badri. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Vardarajan, Badri. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Sariya, Sanjeev. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Sariya, Sanjeev. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Brickman, Adam M. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
Brickman, Adam M. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Brickman, Adam M. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Andrews, Howard. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Andrews, Howard. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Andrews, Howard. Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Manly, Jennifer J. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Manly, Jennifer J. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Manly, Jennifer J. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Schupf, Nicole. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Lantigua, Rafael. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NewYork.
Lantigua, Rafael. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Lantigua, Rafael. Department of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, The New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Bennett, David A. Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, Illinois.
De Jager, Phillip L. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
De Jager, Phillip L. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
De Jager, Phillip L. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Mayeux, Richard. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
12.
  
Bufo viridis secretions improve anxiety and depression-like behavior following
intracerebroventricular injection of amyloid beta.
Shirzad S, Neamati A, Vafaee F, Ghazavi H
Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences. 15(6):571-582, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33828600
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Venenum Bufonis is a Chinese traditional
medicine produced from the glandular secretions of toads that contain biogenic
amines, which have anti-inflammatory properties. The present study aimed to
examine the effect of Bufo viridis secretions (BVS) on anxiety and depression-like
behavior and hippocampal senile plaques volume in an animal model of Alzheimer's
disease (AD).
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Thirty-eight male Wistar rats were used. AD was
induced by amyloid-beta (Abeta1-42) (10 mug/2 muL, intracerebroventricular
injection, icv) and then BVS at 20, 40, and 80 mg/kg were injected intraperitoneally
(ip) in six equal intervals over 21 days. Anxiety and depression-like behavior were
assessed using behavioral tests including open field test (OFT), elevated plus maze
(EPM), and forced swimming test (FST) 21 days after the surgery. The volume ofsenile plaques was assessed based on the Cavalieri principle.
FINDINGS/RESULTS: Results of the OFT showed that the central crossing number
and the time in the AD group were significantly decreased compared to the sham
group (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001, respectively). Also, the values of these two
parameters significantly increased in the AD + BVS80 group than the AD group (P <
0.05 and P < 0.001, respectively). The time spent in the closed arm in the EPM
dramatically increased in the AD group compared to the sham group (P < 0.05) and
significantly decreased in the AD + BVS80 group compared to the AD group (P <
0.05). Results of the FST indicated that immobility time had a reduction in the AD +
BVS20 (P < 0.01), AD + BVS40, and AD + BVS80 groups compared to the AD group
(P < 0.001). The volume of senile plaques in the hippocampus showed a reduction in
the treatment groups in comparison with the AD group (P < 0.001 for all).
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Results revealed that BVS injection could
improve symptoms of anxiety and depression and decrease senile plaques in the
hippocampus in an animal model of AD.
Copyright: © 2020 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shirzad, Shima, Neamati, Ali, Vafaee, Farzaneh, Ghazavi, Hamed
Institution
Shirzad, Shima. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Mashhad Branch, Islamic
Azad University, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.   Neamati, Ali. Department of Biology, Faculty of
Science, Mashhad Branch, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Ghazavi, Hamed. Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Ghazavi, Hamed. Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
13.
  
Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy: Role of Image Guidance in Reducing the
Complications.
Wasi MSI, Sharif S, Shaikh Y
Asian Journal of Neurosurgery. 15(4):926-930, 2020 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33708664
INTRODUCTION: Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is performed by
neurosurgeons around the world for the management of hydrocephalus. ETV has
been associated with multiple complications, the most significant being iatrogenicinjury to the fornix. We aim to establish the fact that the use of image guidance while
planning a trajectory can reduce the incidence of complications as it significantly
alters the usual approach for ETV, i.e., the coronal burr hole can be useful for young
neurosurgeons to overcome the learning curve associated with the procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a prospective, observational study conducted
at Liaquat National Hospital. In this study, 43 patients were included who underwent
ETV for hydrocephalus. Complications were divided into three major groups: arterial
hemorrhage, venous hemorrhage, and injury to neural structures (fornix,
hypothalamus, and oculomotor nerve). The data were compared with studies
showing the complications of ETV with and without usage of image guidance.
RESULTS: Among the 43 patients who underwent ETV with image guidance, only
two patients (4.65%) had iatrogenic fornix contusions. Neither of them developed
memory impairment. None of the patients (0%) encountered other major iatrogenic
complications, including injury to the mammillary body, basilar artery, or oculomotor
nerve.
CONCLUSION: The use of image guidance can reduce trajectory-related
complications, including hemorrhage and iatrogenic injuries to the fornix. This study
showed that the altered trajectory was beneficial in avoiding major neurological
structures while introducing an endoscope through the cortex into the ventricular
system.
Copyright: © 2020 Asian Journal of Neurosurgery.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Wasi, Muhammad Samir Irfan, Sharif, Salman, Shaikh, Yousuf
Institution
Wasi, Muhammad Samir Irfan. Department of Neurosurgery, Hull Royal Infirmary,
Hull, United Kingdom.   Sharif, Salman. Department of Neurosurgery, Liaquat
National Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan.
Shaikh, Yousuf. Department of Neurosurgery, Liaquat National Hospital, Karachi,
Pakistan.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
14.
  
Efficacy of Bacopa Monnieri (Brahmi) and Donepezil in Alzheimer's Disease and Mild
Cognitive Impairment: A Randomized Double-Blind Parallel Phase 2b Study.
Prabhakar S, Vishnu VY, Modi M, Mohanty M, Sharma A, Medhi B, Mittal BR,
Khandelwal N, Goyal MK, Lal V, Singla R, Kansal A, Avasthi A
Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology. 23(6):767-773, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33688125
OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia
worldwide in the older population. There is no disease-modifying therapy available for
AD. The current standard of care drug therapy for AD is cholinesterase inhibitors,including donepezil. Bacopa monnieri or brahmi is used in traditional Indian medicine
for memory loss. We conducted a phase 2b randomized controlled trial (RCT) to find
out the efficacy of brahmi and donepezil in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study was planned as a 52 week, randomized,
double-blind, parallel-group, phase-2 single-center clinical trial comparing the efficacy
and safety of Bacopa monnieri (brahmi) 300 mg OD and donepezil 10 mg OD for 12
months in 48 patients with AD and MCI-AD including cognitive and quality of life
outcomes. The primary outcome was differences in the change from baseline of the
neuropsychological tests [Alzheimer's disease assessment scale-cognitive subscale
(ADAS-Cog) and postgraduate institute (PGI) memory scale] at 12 months between
the intervention group (brahmi) and active comparison group (donepezil).
RESULTS: The study was terminated after 3 years and 9 months, after recruiting 34
patients, because of slow recruitment and a high dropout rate. Intention to treat
analysis after adjusting for baseline confounders showed no difference in the rate of
change in ADAS-Cog score from baseline at any time point, including the last follow-
up. There was no difference in the rate of change in PGI Memory scale (PGIMS) at 3,
6, and 9 months. In the last follow-up, there was a significant difference in the change
in total PGIMS score between brahmi and donepezil, while there was no difference in
individual scores of the PGI memory scale.
CONCLUSION: This phase-2 RCT on the efficacy of brahmi vs. donepezil showed no
significant difference between them after 1 year of treatment. Larger phase-3 trials,
preferably multicentric, are required to find the superiority of brahmi over donepezil.
Copyright: © 2006 - 2020 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Prabhakar, Sudesh, Vishnu, Venugopalan Y, Modi, Manish, Mohanty, Manju,
Sharma, Anchal, Medhi, Bikas, Mittal, B R, Khandelwal, Niranjan, Goyal, Manoj K,
Lal, Vivek, Singla, Rajesh, Kansal, Avinash, Avasthi, Ajit
Institution
Prabhakar, Sudesh. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.   Vishnu, Venugopalan Y. All India
Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Modi, Manish. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Mohanty, Manju. Clinical Neuropsychology, Department of Neurosurgery, Aarogya
Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Sharma, Anchal. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Medhi, Bikas. Department of Pharmacology, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Mittal, B R. Department of Nuclear Medicine, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Khandelwal, Niranjan. Department of Nuclear Medicine, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh,
India.
Goyal, Manoj K. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Lal, Vivek. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Singla, Rajesh. Ayurvedic Consultant, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Kansal, Avinash. Ayurvedic Consultant, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Avasthi, Ajit. Psychiatry, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research,
Chandigarh, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
15.
  
Heterogeneous Influence of Frailty Phenotypes in Age-Related Hearing Loss and
Tinnitus in Chinese Older Adults: An Explorative Study.
Ruan Q, Chen J, Zhang R, Zhang W, Ruan J, Zhang M, Han C, Yu Z
Frontiers in Psychology. 11:617610, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33664689
BACKGROUND: Fried physical frailty, with mobility frailty and non-motor frailty
phenotypes, is a heterogeneous syndrome. The coexistence of the two phenotypes
and cognitive impairment is referred to as cognitive frailty (CF). It remains unknown
whether frailty phenotype has a different association with hearing loss (HL) and
tinnitus.
METHODS: Of the 5,328 community-dwelling older adults, 429 participants aged
>=58 years were enrolled in the study. The participants were divided into robust,
mobility, and non-mobility frailty, mobility and non-mobility CF (subdivided into
reversible and potentially reversible CF, RCF, and PRCF), and cognitive decline
[subdivided into mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and pre-MCI] groups. The severity
and presentations of HL and/or tinnitus were used as dependent variables in the
multivariate logistic or nominal regression analyses with forward elimination adjusted
for frailty phenotype stratifications and other covariates.
RESULTS: Patients with physical frailty (mobility frailty) or who are robust were found
to have lower probability of developing severe HL and tinnitus, and presented HL
and/or tinnitus than those with only cognitive decline, or CF. Patients with RCF and
non-mobility RCF had higher probability with less HL and tinnitus, and the
presentation of HL and/or tinnitus than those with PRCF and mobility RCF. Other
confounders, age, cognitive and social function, cardiovascular disease, depression,
and body mass index, independently mediated the severity of HL and tinnitus, and
presented HL and/or tinnitus.
CONCLUSION: Frailty phenotypes have divergent association with HL and tinnitus.
Further research is required to understand the differential mechanisms and the
personalized intervention of HL and tinnitus.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier, NCT2017K020.
Copyright © 2021 Ruan, Chen, Zhang, Zhang, Ruan, Zhang, Han and Yu.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Ruan, Qingwei, Chen, Jie, Zhang, Ruxin, Zhang, Weibin, Ruan, Jian, Zhang, Min,
Han, Chao, Yu, Zhuowei
Institution
Ruan, Qingwei. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.   Ruan,
Qingwei. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Jie. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.Chen, Jie. Department of Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Ruxin. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Weibin. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Ruan, Jian. Molecular and Cellular Biology Core Facility, Institute of Neuroscience,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Min. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Han, Chao. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Yu, Zhuowei. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Yu, Zhuowei. Department of Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
16.
  
Comparing Copper Serum Level and Cognitive Functioning in Patients With
Schizophrenia and Healthy Controls.
Mazhari S, Arjmand S, Eslami Shahrbabaki M, Karimi Ghoughari E
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(5):649-657, 2020 Sep-Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33643558
INTRODUCTION: The altered serum profiles of several trace elements have been
reported in Schizophrenia (SCZ). This study was designed to elucidate whether the
serum levels of Copper (Cu) and Magnesium (Mg), the two essential trace elements
which contribute to neurotransmitter transmission, are altered in patients with SCZ.
We also investigated whether there is an interrelation between cognitive functioning
and the serum levels of Cu and Mg.
METHODS: Sixty patients with SCZ and 30 healthy controls participated in this study.
The patient group was divided into the following: i) early patients (n=35, <=5 years of
illness initiation), and ii) chronic patients (n=25, >=5 years of illness duration). The
serum levels of Cu and Mg were measured by atomic absorption spectroscopy and
ion-selective electrode potentiometry, respectively. To assess cognitive abilities, a
Persian adaptation of the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS)
was administered.
RESULTS: The present research results revealed significantly higher Cu serum
levels in both patient groups [early patients (M=94.6), chronic patients (M=97.5)],
compared to the controls (M=71.0) (P<0.001); however, no significant difference was
observed among the study groups for Mg [patients with the recent onset (M=2.0),
chronic patients (M=2.0), and controls (M=1.9)] P=0.1. While the serum Cu profile ofhealthy individuals revealed a negative correlation with working memory (r=-0.42,
P=0.02), and executive functioning (r=-0.40, P=0.03), no significant correlation was
observed between Cu serum levels of patients and BACS cognitive domains.
CONCLUSION: findings suggested that the high Cu serum concentration might
impact the cognitive decline in healthy individuals; however, no significant correlation
was observed in the Patients; i.e. most likely because cognition is severely impaired
in SCZ. Additional studies examining trace elements in drug-naive patients with SCZ
are required.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Mazhari, Shahrzad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8601-8989   Arjmand,
Shokouh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5151-8702 
Karimi Ghoughari, Elham; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3748-7599 
Authors Full Name
Mazhari, Shahrzad, Arjmand, Shokouh, Eslami Shahrbabaki, Mahin, Karimi
Ghoughari, Elham
Institution
Mazhari, Shahrzad. Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of Neuropharmacology,
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.   Arjmand, Shokouh.
Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman University
of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Eslami Shahrbabaki, Mahin. Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Karimi Ghoughari, Elham. Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of
Neuropharmacology, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
17.
  
Risk of Fall among Older Adults and its Association with Cognitive Impairment in a
Semi-Urban Community.
Monachan D, Vargese SS, Johny V, Mathew E
Indian Journal of Community Medicine. 45(4):463-466, 2020 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33623202
CONTEXT: Fall in older people is a major public health concern. Two-third of the
death due to fall are preventable. Risk assessment in older adults therefore is the
first step to identify the high-risk group to plan need-based intervention.
AIMS: The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of risk of fall among
older adults and its association with cognitive impairment and sociodemographic
characteristics.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: A cross-sectional study was conducted in the field
practice areas of the department of community medicine in a teaching hospital inSouth Kerala, India.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A semi-structured questionnaire was used to collect
the data. Berg Balance Scale and Mini-Cog Test were used for measuring risk of fall
and cognitive impairment.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: Descriptive statistics and logistic regression were
used for the statistical analysis using SPSS.
RESULTS: Among the older adults, 45% were at risk of fall, 42.4% in males and
57.6% in females. The risk of fall was found to be significantly associated with
cognitive impairment, (odds ratio = 3.89, confidence interval at 95% = 2.06-7.31, P <
0.001). Advanced age, female gender, and unemployed status were significantly
associated with the risk of fall.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of fall prevalence was high and significantly related to
cognitive impairment, advanced age, female gender, and occupational status, with
more than half of those currently not working having a higher risk. The study would
recommend regular follow-up of risk groups for prevention a good percentage of fall
and thereby the related injuries.
Copyright: © 2020 Indian Journal of Community Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Monachan, Dayana, Vargese, Saritha Susan, Johny, Vinny, Mathew, Elsheba
Institution
Monachan, Dayana. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of
Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.   Vargese, Saritha
Susan. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical Sciences
and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Johny, Vinny. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical
Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Mathew, Elsheba. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of
Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
18.
  
Differential Effect of Amyloid Beta1-40 on Short-term and Long-term Plasticity in
Dentate Gyrus of a Rat Model of Alzheimer Disease.
Fahanik-Babaei J, Baluchnejadmojarad T, Roghani M
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):517-524, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613890
INTRODUCTION: Synaptic plasticity is inappropriately affected by
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer Disease (AD). In this study, we
examined the effect of intrahippocampal amyloid-beta (Abeta1-40) on dentate gyrus
Long-term Potentiation (LTP) and presynaptic short-term plasticity in a rat model of
AD.METHODS: The experimental groups in this research included the control with no
treatment, sham-operated receiving the vehicle (normal saline), and Abeta-lesioned
groups. For modeling AD, aggregated Abeta1-40 (10 mug/2 mul on each side) was
injected into the hippocampal CA1. Three weeks later, Population Spike (PS)
amplitude and slope ratios were determined at different Inter-pulse Intervals (IPI) of
10, 20, 30, and 50 ms as a valid indicator of the short-term presynaptic facilitation
and/or depression. In addition, PS amplitude and slope were taken as an index of
long-term synaptic plasticity after application of High-frequency Stimulation (HFS) to
induce LTP in the medial perforant-dentate gyrus pathway.
RESULTS: No significant differences were noted amongst the experimental groups
regarding fEPSP slope and paired-pulse indices as indicators of short-term plasticity.
In contrast, fEPSP slope and PS amplitude significantly decreased following the
application of HFS in Abeta-injected group. In addition, there was no significant
difference between the control and sham-operated groups regarding the mentioned
parameters.
CONCLUSION: Findings of this study clearly demonstrated that microinjection of
Abeta1-40 into the CA1 could impair LTP in dentate gyrus but could not modify short-
term plasticity.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6707-132X
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2703-728X 
Roghani, Mehrdad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9209-8484 
Authors Full Name
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad, Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht, Roghani, Mehrdad
Institution
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad. Physiology Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Physiology Research
Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine,
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Roghani, Mehrdad. Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahed University, Tehran,
Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
19.
  
Crocin Treatment after Maternal Hypoxia Attenuates Spatial Memory Impairment and
Expression of BACE1 and HIF-1alpha in Rat Offspring Brain.
Fahimi Truski F, Ghotbeddin Z, Tabandeh MR, Pourmahdi Borujeni M
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):499-506, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613888INTRODUCTION: Hypoxia via expression of Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1 (HIF-1) is an
important and effective factor in the onset and progression of memory disorders,
such as Alzheimer Disease (AD). The activity of beta-secretase (BACE1) is
increased in hypoxia conditions. BACE1 triggers a cascade of pathological events
resulting in AD. Crocin acts as a memoryimproving agent but its molecular
mechanism is not well-known. Therefore, in this study, the effect of crocin on spatial
memory, HIF-1alpha, and BACE1 gene expression was investigated in rat offspring
under maternal hypoxia.
METHODS: Female pregnant rats on the 20th day of pregnancy were divided into 4
groups, including sham, crocin-treated, hypoxia, and hypoxia group treated with
crocin. In the hypoxia groups, pregnant rats were exposed to 7% oxygen and 93%
nitrogen intensity for 3 h. In the crocin-treated group, crocin (30 mg/kg) was injected
at P14-28 (i.p). At the end, Morris water maze was used to assess spatial memory
and real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to measure the expression
of BACE1 and HIF-1alpha genes in the brain of offspring.
RESULTS: Maternal hypoxia impaired memory compared with the sham group.
However, crocin treatment improved cognitive behavior. HIF-1alpha and BACE1
expressions were upregulated in the brain of offspring in the hypoxia group. Crocin
treatment could attenuate the expression of both genes.
CONCLUSION: According to our results, down-regulation of HIF-1alpha and BACE1
gene expressions in the brain of rat offspring after crocin treatment can be suggested
as a molecular mechanism for crocin to improve spatial memory.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3481-2755
Ghotbeddin, Zohreh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2110-6333 
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3258-8550 
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9478-260X 
Authors Full Name
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh, Ghotbeddin, Zohreh, Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza,
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi
Institution
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh. Department of Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.   Ghotbeddin, Zohreh. Department
of Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz,
Ahvaz, Iran.
Ghotbeddin, Zohreh. Stem Cell and Transgenic Technology Research Center,
Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza. Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza. Stem Cell and Transgenic Technology Research
Center, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi. Department of Food Hygiene, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
20.
  
Protective Effects of Pelargonium graveolens Essential Oil on Methomyl-Induced
Oxidative Stress and Spatial Working Memory Impairment in Association with
Histopathological Changes in the Hippocampus of Male Wistar Rats.
Amine KM, Kahina C, Nawel H, Faiza Z, Jean G, Mohamed T, Saadia M, Ahsene B
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):433-446, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613881
INTRODUCTION: Methomyl (MET) is a carbamate insecticide, used in agriculture
and public health to eliminate harmful insects. Besides its advantages in agriculture,
it causes neurotoxic effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of MET
on Spatial Working Memory (SWM), oxidative stress parameters, and
histopathological changes in the hippocampus, as well as the possible protective role
of Pelargonium graveolens Essential Oil (EO).
METHODS: Male Wistar rats were randomized into four groups of six animals: group
I as the control that received the vehicle; group II received EO (75 mg/kg b.w), group
III received MET (2 mg/kg b.w); and group IV received both MET and EO. The rats
were administered the respective doses orally by gavage for 28 days. SWM was
assessed using Y-maze on the day before the first treatment and day 28 after the last
dose. They were sacrificed by decapitation and their brains were taken for assessing
oxidative stress parameters and histopathological analysis.
RESULTS: MET treatment caused SWM deficits. Furthermore, drastic changes were
observed in aspartate transaminase, alanine aminotransferase, and alkaline
phosphatase activities. The level of malondialdehyde significantly increased,
whereas antioxidant (glutathioneS-transferase and catalase) enzyme activities
significantly decreased. The CA1 region of the hippocampus of rats exposed to MET
revealed severe histological alterations. However, supplementation with EO
improved SWM and partially restored the activities of antioxidant systems and
prevented neuronal cell damage.
CONCLUSION: P. graveolens EO has the potential in mitigating most of the adverse
effects in the hippocampus and prevents SWM impairment induced by MET toxicity.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Amine, Khene M'hammed; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7998-8071   Kahina,
Chabane; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7378-5449 
Nawel, Habchi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2057-993X 
Faiza, Zaida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0274-8114 
Jean, Giaimis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2315-0995 
Mohamed, Toumi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1241-3323 
Saadia, Mameri; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9157-8398 
Ahsene, Baz; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5337-4821 
Authors Full Name
Amine, Khene M'hammed, Kahina, Chabane, Nawel, Habchi, Faiza, Zaida, Jean,
Giaimis, Mohamed, Toumi, Saadia, Mameri, Ahsene, Baz
Institution
Amine, Khene M'hammed. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS
Kouba, Algiers, Algeria.   Kahina, Chabane. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and
Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba, Algiers, Algeria.
Nawel, Habchi. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.Faiza, Zaida. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Jean, Giaimis. UMR Qualisud-Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montpellier,
Montpellier, France.
Mohamed, Toumi. Laboratory of Ethnobotany and Naturel Substances, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Saadia, Mameri. Laboratory of Anatomopathology, Mustapha Bacha Hospital,
Algiers, Algeria.
Ahsene, Baz. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
21.
  
Ibuprofen Protection Against Restrained Chronic Stress-induced Depression in Male
Rats.
Nozari M, Nahavandi A, Zeinivand M, Eslami Gharaati M, Godarzi M, Ahmadi M,
Jamali-Raeufy N
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):413-422, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613879
INTRODUCTION: Stress predisposes organisms to depression and cognitive
impairments, and seems to interact with metabolic homeostasis. The inflammatory
response and the upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines are some of the
consequences related to chronic stress. In this study, we investigated the preventive
effect of chronic administration of ibuprofen, as an inhibitor of cyclooxygenases, on
the cognitive and behavioral alterations and the weight gain reduction induced by
simultaneous chronic restraint stress in rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Male Wistar rats were subjected to chronic restraint
stress and injected daily with the variable doses of ibuprofen or vehicle, for 21
consecutive days. Then, all animals were tested with the forced swim test and
passive avoidance conditioning. Also, the weight of the animals was recorded before
and after the interventions. Ultimately, plasma interleukin 6 (IL-6) levels were
measured.
RESULTS: Chronic stress increased depressive-like behaviors, impaired learning,
and disrupted the normal weight gain. However, the animals that received the highest
dose of ibuprofen showed less depressive-like behaviors, a better avoidance
memory, and a higher weight gain. However, the level of plasma IL-6 did not differ
significantly between the study groups.
CONCLUSION: The administration of ibuprofen prevents the cognitive and
behavioral consequences of chronic stress. During the recovery, the plasma levels of
IL-6 were not elevated by stress, and the IL-6 levels did not predict the behavioral
performance of the stressed animals. The exact mechanisms of the protective effects
of ibuprofen against chronic stress need to be further investigated.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Nozari, Masoumeh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1543-6240   Nahavandi,
Arezo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5317-6056 
Zeinivand, Motahareh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0556-9525 
Eslami Gharaati, Maryam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3899-3541 
Jamali-Raeufy, Nida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2416-0335 
Authors Full Name
Nozari, Masoumeh, Nahavandi, Arezo, Zeinivand, Motahareh, Eslami Gharaati,
Maryam, Godarzi, Mina, Ahmadi, Mohammad, Jamali-Raeufy, Nida
Institution
Nozari, Masoumeh. Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology,
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.   Nahavandi, Arezo.
Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Iran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Nahavandi, Arezo. Neuroscience Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Nahavandi, Arezo. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Zeinivand, Motahareh. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Eslami Gharaati, Maryam. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Godarzi, Mina. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Ahmadi, Mohammad. Neuroscience Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Jamali-Raeufy, Nida. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
22.
  
Advancing family dementia caregiver interventions in low- and middle-income
countries: A pilot cluster randomized controlled trial of Resources for Advancing
Alzheimer's Caregiver Health in Vietnam (REACH VN).
Hinton L, Nguyen H, Nguyen HT, Harvey DJ, Nichols L, Martindale-Adams J, Nguyen
BT, Nguyen BTT, Nguyen AN, Nguyen CH, Nguyen TTH, Nguyen TL, Nguyen ATP,
Nguyen NB, Tiet QQ, Nguyen TA, Nguyen PQ, Nguyen TA, Pham T
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions.
6(1):e12063, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33532542
INTRODUCTION: Low- and middle-income countries have rapidly increasing
numbers of people with dementia, yet little evidence on family caregiving
interventions. We tested the preliminary efficacy and feasibility of a family caregivingintervention in northern Vietnam.
METHODS: Nine clusters comprising 60 family caregivers were randomized to a
culturally adapted version of a four- to six-session, multicomponent intervention
delivered in-home over 2 to 3 months, or enhanced control. Eligible caregivers were
>=18 years of age and scored >=6 on the Zarit Burden Inventory (ZBI).
RESULTS: Fifty-one caregivers (85%) completed the study. Using analysis of
covariance with 3-month assessment as the outcome and baseline assessment as a
covariate, intervention group caregivers had an average ZBI (primary outcome) score
1.2 standard deviation (SD) lower (P = .02) and Patient Health Questionnaire-4
(psychological distress) score 0.7 SD lower (P = .03) than controls.
DISCUSSION: In the first study of its kind in Vietnam, a culturally adapted,
manualized, family caregiver intervention was both efficacious and feasible.
Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research &
Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of Alzheimer's
Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Hinton, Ladson, Nguyen, Huong, Nguyen, Hung Trong, Harvey, Danielle J, Nichols,
Linda, Martindale-Adams, Jennifer, Nguyen, Binh Thanh, Nguyen, Binh Thi Thanh,
Nguyen, Anh Ngoc, Nguyen, Chinh Hong, Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai, Nguyen, Thuy Le,
Nguyen, Anh Thi Phuong, Nguyen, Ngoc Bich, Tiet, Quyen Q, Nguyen, Tuan Anh,
Nguyen, Phong Quy, Nguyen, Trung Anh, Pham, Thang
Institution
Hinton, Ladson. Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences University of
California Davis California USA.   Nguyen, Huong. Department of Religious Studies
University of South Carolina Columbia South Carolina USA.
Nguyen, Hung Trong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Hung Trong. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Harvey, Danielle J. Department of Public Health Sciences University of California
Davis California USA.
Nichols, Linda. Caregiver Center Veterans Affairs Medical Center Memphis
Tennessee USA.
Nichols, Linda. Department of Preventive Medicine University of Tennessee Health
Sciences Center Memphis Tennessee USA.
Martindale-Adams, Jennifer. Caregiver Center Veterans Affairs Medical Center
Memphis Tennessee USA.
Martindale-Adams, Jennifer. Department of Preventive Medicine University of
Tennessee Health Sciences Center Memphis Tennessee USA.
Nguyen, Binh Thanh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Binh Thi Thanh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Anh Ngoc. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Chinh Hong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thuy Le. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Anh Thi Phuong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Ngoc Bich. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Tiet, Quyen Q. California School of Professional Psychology at Alliant International
University San Francisco California USA.
Nguyen, Tuan Anh. University of South Australia Adelaide Australia.
Nguyen, Phong Quy. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Trung Anh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Trung Anh. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
23.
  
Effect of Watermelon Extract on Nerve Conduction Velocity, Memory, and T4 Level in
Rats.
Jafari Nejad Bajestani M, Yousefi M, Hadjzadeh MA, Hosseini M, Taghipour A,
Yousefvand S
Advanced Biomedical Research. 9:53, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33457336
BACKGROUND: Watermelon is a fruit with the thirst-quenching effect and especially
is consumed in summer. In this study, the effect of consumption of watermelon
extract (in drinking water) on thyroid hormone level (TT4), animals' weight, water and
food consumption, nerve conduction velocity (NCV), and memory in Wistar rats were
investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four male Wistar rats were divided into three
groups: control, CT 1500 mg/kg, and CT 3000 mg/kg (n = 8, in each group).
Watermelon extract was administered for 42 days. The results measured in this study
were analyzed with repeated measures or one-way analysis of variance and
compared by the least significant difference post hoc. P < 0.05 was considered as
significant difference.
RESULTS: The results showed that animals' weight in both the treatment groups
decreased compared to the control group (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively).
Water and food consumption and the level of TT4 increased when compared to the
control group in both the treated groups (both P < 0.001). NCV in both the treated
groups decreased in comparison with the control group (both P < 0.001). Spatial
memory did not change significantly, but passive avoidance memory in both the
treated groups significantly decreased in comparison to the control group
(respectively, with P < 0.05 and P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Based on these finding, in spite of increase in food and water
consumption in the treated groups, animal weight did not increase significantly.
Impairment in memory and decrease in NCV were also occurred, but TT4 level was
increased in animals treated with watermelon extract.
Copyright: © 2020 Advanced Biomedical Research.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jafari Nejad Bajestani, Majid, Yousefi, Mahdi, Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza, Hosseini,
Mahmoud, Taghipour, Ali, Yousefvand, Shiba
Institution
Jafari Nejad Bajestani, Majid. Department of Persian Medicine, School of Persian
and Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad,
Iran.   Yousefi, Mahdi. Department of Persian Medicine, School of Persian and
Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Division of Neurocognitive Sciences, Psychiatry and
Behavioural Sciences Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Division of Neurocognitive Sciences, Psychiatry and
Behavioural Sciences Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad University
of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Taghipour, Ali. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Cancer Research
Center, Social Determinants of Health Research Center, School of Health, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Yousefvand, Shiba. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
24.
  
High milk consumption is associated with carotid atherosclerosis in middle and old-
aged Chinese.
He M, Guo Z, Lu Z, Wei S, Wang Z
International Journal of Cardiology Hypertension. 5:100031, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33447760
BACKGROUND: Carotid atherosclerosis (CA) can reflect atherosclerotic status of
systemic vessels, and is associated with ischemic stroke and cognitive impairment.
Milk consumption is growing in China, and data are limited on the association
between milk and CA risk.
METHODS: Participants aged >=40 years in China National Stroke Prevention
Project were recruited for carotid ultrasound examination, and those with carotid
endarterectomy, carotid stenting stroke or coronary heart disease were excluded.
Participants were defined as having CA when intima-media thickness (IMT) >=1 mm
or plaques were detected by ultrasonography. For milk consumption, though contents
were not analyzed, people were divided into high consumption (>=200 ml/day and
>=5 day/week) and low consumption (occasional or never) groups. Multivariate
logistics regression analyses were done in both full and propensity score-matched
population to identify the association between milk consumption and CA.
RESULTS: 84880 participants were included in the final analysis. After being
adjusted by age, gender, living location, smoking habits, drinking habits, physical
activity, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, high milk consumption is
associated with CA in both full population (odds ratio [OR] = 1.26, 95% confidence
interval [CI] 1.19-1.33) and propensity score-matched population (OR = 1.25, 95%CI
1.17-1.34). High milk consumption is also a risk factor for IMT thickening (OR = 1.15,95%CI 1.08-1.23), carotid plaque formation (OR = 1.17, 95%CI 1.09-1.25) and
carotid stenosis over 50% (OR = 1.52, 95%CI 1.10-2.14) in the propensity score-
matched population.
CONCLUSIONS: High milk consumption is related to CA in middle and old-aged
Chinese population. More cautious advice on milk intake should be given in this
population for prevention of atherosclerosis.
Copyright © 2020 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
He, Miao, Guo, Zaogeng, Lu, Zuxun, Wei, Sheng, Wang, Zhihong
Institution
He, Miao. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health,Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.   Guo, Zaogeng. Health Science Center, Shenzhen Second People's
Hospital, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
Lu, Zuxun. Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public
Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.
Wei, Sheng. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health,Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.
Wang, Zhihong. Health Science Center, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, The
First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
Wang, Zhihong. Guangdong Innovation Platform of Translational Research for
Cerebrovascular Diseases, Shenzhen, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
25.
  
Cognitive Disorders in Patients with Multiple Sclerosis.
Sehanovic A, Smajlovic D, Tupkovic E, Ibrahimagic OC, Kunic S, Dostovic Z, Zoletic
E, Pasic Z
Materia Sociomedica. 32(3):191-195, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33424448
INTRODUCTION: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, (auto) immune
disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Cognitive disorders are found in over
50% of patients.
AIM: The aim of the study was to determine the distribution of cognitive disorders in
people with MS.
METHODS: The prospective study included 135 respondents with MS and 50 healthy
respondents. The respondents were divided into three groups: the first group
consisted of 85 respondents where the disease lasted longer than one year, the
second group consisted of 50 respondents with newly diagnosed MS, the third groupconsisted of 50 healthy respondents. Clinical assessment instruments were:
Extended Disability Score in Multiple Sclerosis Patients, Mini Mental Status, Battery
of Tests to Assess Cognitive Functions: Wechsler Intelligence Scale, Revised Beta
Test, Raven Colored Progressive Matrices, Wechsler Memory Scale, Rey Audio
Verbal Learning Test -Osterriecht's complex character test, verbal fluency test.
RESULTS: Cognitive disorders were present in 40-60% of respondents with MS.
Visuospatial, visuoconstructive and visuoperceptive functions are worse in the first
group. Mnestic functions (learning process, short-term and long-term memory,
recollection, verbal-logical memory) were most affected in both groups of
respondents, ranging from 30-60%. Poorer cognitive domains are in the first groups
of respondents. Immediate working process memory (current learning), memory,
attention, short-term and logical memory is worse in the examinees of the first group.
At the beginning of the disease, 16% had verbal fluency difficulties, and as the
disease progresses, the difficulties become more pronounced.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive disorders are heterogeneous, they can be noticed in the
early stages of the disease. They refer to impairments of working memory, executive
functions and attention, while global intellectual efficiency is later reduced.
Copyright © 2020 Aida Sehanovic, Dzevdet Smajlovic, Emir Tupkovic, Omer C.
Ibrahimagic, Suljo Kunic, Zikrija Dostovic, Emina Zoletic, Zejneba Pasic.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Sehanovic, Aida, Smajlovic, Dzevdet, Tupkovic, Emir, Ibrahimagic, Omer C, Kunic,
Suljo, Dostovic, Zikrija, Zoletic, Emina, Pasic, Zejneba
Institution
Sehanovic, Aida. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.   Sehanovic, Aida. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Smajlovic, Dzevdet. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Smajlovic, Dzevdet. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Tupkovic, Emir. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Tupkovic, Emir. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Ibrahimagic, Omer C. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Ibrahimagic, Omer C. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Kunic, Suljo. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Kunic, Suljo. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Dostovic, Zikrija. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
Dostovic, Zikrija. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Zoletic, Emina. Clinic of Neurology, Medical Center of University in Sarajevo,
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Pasic, Zejneba. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
Pasic, Zejneba. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Year of Publication
2020 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
26.
  
Outcomes and interventions in the elderly with and without cognitive impairment: a
longitudinal study.
da Silva ACS, Ansai JH, Cezar NOC, Carvalho Vale FA, Dos Santos JG, de Andrade
LP
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):394-402, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354293
BACKGROUND: Clinical follow-up studies are necessary for a better understanding
of the evolution of cognitive impairment as well as the development of better
assessment and intervention tools.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether older people with preserved cognition (PC), mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) show differences in
clinical outcomes and interventions after a 32-month period.
METHODS: One hundred twenty-four community-dwelling older people were
included and classified in one of three groups (PC, MCI and mild AD). Information on
clinical outcomes (deaths, new diagnoses, falls, need for assistance or changes in
routine and hospitalizations) and interventions (increased use of medication,
physiotherapeutic intervention, practice of physical exercise, etc.) in the 32-month
period were collected by telephone or during a home visit on a single day.
RESULTS: Ninety-five participants (35 with PC, 33 with MCI and 27 with AD) were
reevaluated after 32 months. The need for assistance/changes in routine was
significantly higher in the AD group, especially with regard to basic activities of daily
living. Unlike the other groups, the PC group did not show "other diagnoses" (urinary
incontinence, prolapse, change in vision or autoimmune disease). No significant
differences were found regarding other variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Older people with and without cognitive impairment exhibited
differences in some clinical outcomes after 32 months, such as need for assistance
or changes in their routine and new diagnoses of specific diseases. Therefore, the
multidimensionality of geriatric patients should be considered when planning
assessments and interventions.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7299-2083
Ansai, Juliana Hotta; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9873-3509 
Cezar, Natalia Oiring de Castro; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8264-3565 
Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8826-2010 
Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5627-4655 
de Andrade, Larissa Pires; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8860-5818 
Authors Full Name
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares, Ansai, Juliana Hotta, Cezar, Natalia Oiring de
Castro, Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis, Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes, de Andrade,
Larissa PiresInstitution
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.   Ansai, Juliana Hotta. Gerontology Department,
Universidade Federal de Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Cezar, Natalia Oiring de Castro. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis. Medicine Department, Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
de Andrade, Larissa Pires. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
INTRODUCAO: Estudos com acompanhamento clinico sao necessarios para um
melhor entendimento da evolucao do quadro cognitivo e desenvolvimento de
melhores estrategias de avaliacao e intervencao.OBJETIVO: Investigar se idosos
com cognicao preservada (CP), comprometimento cognitivo leve (CCL) e doenca de
Alzheimer (DA) leve apresentam diferencas nos desfechos clinicos e intervencoes
realizadas ao longo de 32 meses.METODOS: A amostra foi constituida de 124
idosos residentes na comunidade foram incluidos e classificados em um dos tres
grupos (CP, CCL, DA leve). Informacoes sobre desfechos clinicos (obitos, novos
diagnosticos, quedas, necessidade de assistencia ou mudancas de rotina e
hospitalizacoes) e intervencoes realizadas (aumento do uso de medicamentos,
intervencao fisioterapeutica, pratica de exercicios fisicos e outras) foram coletadas,
no periodo de 32 meses, por telefone ou durante visita domiciliar em um unico
dia.RESULTADOS: Apos 32 meses, 95 idosos (35 CP, 33 CCL e 27 DA) foram
reavaliados. A necessidade de assistencia/mudancas de rotina foi significativamente
maior no Grupo DA, principalmente para as atividades basicas de vida diaria.
Diferentemente dos outros grupos, o Grupo CP nao apresentou "outros
diagnosticos" (incontinencia urinaria, prolapso, alteracoes visuais e doenca
autoimune). Nenhuma outra diferenca significativa foi encontrada quanto as outras
variaveis.CONCLUSAO: Os idosos com e sem comprometimento cognitivo
apresentaram diferencas em alguns desfechos clinicos apos 32 meses, como
necessidade de assistencia/mudancas de rotina e novos diagnosticos de doencas
especificas. Assim, a multidimensionalidade do idoso deve ser considerada ao
planejar avaliacoes e intervencoes.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
27.
  
Normative data for middle-aged Brazilians in the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale.
Carvalho GA, Caramelli P
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):350-357, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354287Despite the advances in the diagnosis of dementia, neuropsychological assessment
remains an important tool. The Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS) was designed to
evaluate people with suspected dementia and allows for the analysis of different
cognitive domains. Considering the numerous cases of early-onset dementia,
specific reference standards aimed at the middle-aged population are necessary.
OBJECTIVE: To provide normative data for the middle-aged Brazilian population in
DRS and to investigate the influence of education level, age, sex, and intelligence
quotient (IQ) on the results.
METHODS: Overall, 120 healthcare professionals and caregivers from a hospital,
who were healthy, aged between 45 and 64 years, and had at least four years of
formal education, were included in the study. They were equally divided into six
groups. In each age group (45-54 and 55-64 years), there were three educational
levels: 4-7, 8-11, and 12 or more (12+) years of formal education. The results are
presented as mean values, standard deviations, and percentiles. Comparisons
between groups were carried out for age, sex, and education level. Age, years of
formal education, and IQ were also analyzed as continuous variables by Spearman's
correlation.
RESULTS: Concerning education level, the comparison between groups showed
differences in the results for the total scale and subscales, except for the
Construction subscale. No differences were found for age and sex. Correlations
observed for years of formal education and IQ were similar. No correlation was found
for age.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study contributes to the evaluation of dementia
concerning people younger than 65 years of age and reinforces the importance of
education in the interpretation of the scores.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2210-1016
Caramelli, Paulo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4786-6990 
Authors Full Name
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida, Caramelli, Paulo
Institution
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida. Rede Sarah de Hospitais de Reabilitacao - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.   Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida. Programa de Pos-Graduacao
em Ciencias Aplicadas a Saude do Adulto, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Caramelli, Paulo. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias Aplicadas a Saude do
Adulto, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Caramelli, Paulo. Grupo de Pesquisa em Neurologia Cognitiva e do Comportamento,
Departamento de Clinica Medica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Apesar dos avancos no diagnostico de demencia, a avaliacao neuropsicologica
continua sendo uma importante ferramenta. A Escala de Avaliacao de Demencia de
Mattis (Mattis Dementia Rating Scale - DRS) foi projetada para avaliar pessoas com
suspeita de demencia e permite a analise de diferentes dominios cognitivos. Dados
os numerosos casos de demencia com inicio precoce, sao necessarias normas
especificas para a populacao de meia-idade.OBJETIVO: Fornecer dados normativos
para a populacao brasileira de meia-idade na escala Mattis e investigar a influencia
da escolaridade, idade, sexo e quociente de inteligencia (QI) nos
resultados.METODOS: 120 funcionarios e cuidadores saudaveis de um hospital,
com idade entre 45 e 64 anos e com pelo menos quatro anos de escolaridade foram
incluidos no estudo, os quais foram divididos igualmente em seis grupos. Havia tresniveis educacionais para cada faixa etaria (45-54 e 55-64 anos): 4 a 7 anos de
estudo (4-7), 8 a 11 (8-11) e 12 anos ou mais (12+). Os resultados sao apresentados
como valores medios, desvios padrao e percentis. Foram realizadas comparacoes
entre os grupos de acordo com idade, sexo e escolaridade. Idade, anos de estudo e
QI foram tambem analisados como variaveis continuas atraves da correlacao de
Spearman.RESULTADOS: Para a educacao, a comparacao entre os grupos
mostrou diferencas nos resultados da escala total e subescalas, exceto na
subescala Construcao. Nao foram identificadas diferencas para idade e sexo. As
correlacoes observadas para anos de estudo e QI foram semelhantes. Nenhuma
correlacao foi encontrada para idade.CONCLUSAO: O presente estudo contribui
para a avaliacao da demencia em individuos com menos de 65 anos e reforca a
importancia de considerar o nivel educacional na interpretacao dos escores.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
28.
  
Environmental factors between normal and superagers in an Argentine cohort.
Calandri IL, Crivelli L, Martin ME, Egido N, Guimet NM, Allegri RF
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):345-349, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354286
Normal aging usually brings age-related cognitive decline. However, there is a group
of aged individuals who have exceptional memory performance: the superagers.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to identify the environmental factors that could influence
exceptional memory performance in a cohort of Argentine individuals.
METHODS: Forty healthy volunteers >80 years of age were classified into two
groups, superagers (SA, n=20) and normal agers (NA, n=20), according to the
Northwestern SuperAging Program criteria. Participants were neuropsychologically
tested and evaluated on environmental aspects: working status, education,
bilingualism, cognitive reserve, physical activity, social networking, clinical
comorbidities, and longevity of parents and siblings.
RESULTS: Both groups were highly educated (NA=16.3+/-3 years; SA 15.85+/-2.6;
p=0.6), 11.8% of the sample was still working without differences between groups.
There were no differences in cognitive reserve inventory (p=0.7), physical activity
engagement (p=0.423), or social network index (p=0.73). As for longevity, 44% of the
siblings lived longer than 80 years of age (p=0.432) and maternal longevity was
linked to SA (NA=46.7%; SA=80%; p=0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: This study is a pilot approximation to the superaging population in
Argentina. Our results suggest that environmental factors related to successful aging
do not differentiate superaging. SA may depend on variables yet to be identified,
probably of a genetic/metabolic order.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameIDCalandri, Ismael Luis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6983-1430   Crivelli,
Lucia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0083-9389 
Martin, Maria Eugenia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5757-5938 
Egido, Noelia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7420-2324 
Guimet, Nahuel Magrath; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7420-8547 
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7166-1234 
Authors Full Name
Calandri, Ismael Luis, Crivelli, Lucia, Martin, Maria Eugenia, Egido, Noelia, Guimet,
Nahuel Magrath, Allegri, Ricardo Francisco
Institution
Calandri, Ismael Luis. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.   Crivelli, Lucia. Departamento de Neurologia,
FLENI Ringgold Standard Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Martin, Maria Eugenia. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Egido, Noelia. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard Institution -
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Guimet, Nahuel Magrath. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco. Universidad de la Costa - Barranquilla, Atlantico,
Colombia.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O envelhecimento normal geralmente traz declinio cognitivo relacionado a idade. No
entanto, existe um grupo de idosos com desempenho excepcional de memoria: os
superidosos.OBJETIVO: Nosso objetivo foi identificar os fatores ambientais que
podem influenciar o desempenho excepcional da memoria em uma coorte de
individuos argentinos.METODOS: Quarenta voluntarios saudaveis com idade >80
anos foram classificados em dois grupos: superidosos (SI, n=20) e idosos normais
(IN, n=20), de acordo com os criterios do Programa de Superidosos da Universidade
Northwestern. Os participantes foram testados neuropsicologicamente e avaliados
nos aspectos ambientais: situacao de trabalho, escolaridade, bilinguismo, reserva
cognitiva, atividade fisica e rede social, comorbidades clinicas e longevidade de pais
e irmaos.RESULTADOS: Ambos os grupos tinham alto nivel de escolaridade
(IN=16,3+/-3 anos; SI=15,85+/-2,6; p=0,6), 11,8% da amostra ainda trabalhava sem
diferenca entre os grupos. Nao houve diferencas no inventario de reserva cognitiva
(p=0,7), pratica de atividade fisica (p=0,423) ou indice de rede social (p=0,73).
Quanto a longevidade, 44% dos irmaos viviam mais de 80 anos (p=0,432) e a
longevidade materna estava associada a SI (IN=46,7%; SI=80%;
p=0,045).CONCLUSOES: Este estudo e uma aproximacao piloto ao super
envelhecimento da populacao na Argentina. Nossos resultados sugerem que os
fatores ambientais relacionados ao envelhecimento bem-sucedido nao diferenciam
os superidosos. Ser superidoso pode depender de variaveis ainda nao identificadas,
provavelmente de ordem genetica/metabolica.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
29.
  
The comorbidity conditions and polypharmacy in elderly patients with mental illness
in a middle income country: a cross-sectional study.
de Lima JD, Teixeira IA, Silva FO, Deslandes AC
IBRO Reports. 9:96-101, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33336105
BACKGROUND: Mental disorders increase the risk factor for developing physical
comorbidity conditions, such as cardiometabolic diseases. There is a high prevalence
of multimorbidity and polypharmacy in the elderly population which hampers clinical
response. Studies have shown that this positive correlation between the aging
process and enhancement of physical comorbidities is especially high among older
adults who live in low or middle income countries.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between physical disease comorbidities
and polypharmacy in older adults with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease
(AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or major depressive disorder (MDD), living in a
middle income country.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study of community-dwelling elderly individuals who are
cognitively healthy and those with AD, MCI, or MDD. The severity scale of the
Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) was calculated to classify the severity of
comorbidity condition. Logistic regression model (unadjusted and adjusted for age)
were used to calculate odds ratios (OR) and 95 % confidence intervals (CI) for
cardiometabolic comorbidity (hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia and overweight),
and polypharmacy.
RESULTS: Although there was not an increased risk of hypertension, diabetes, and
obesity among the groups, elderly people with mental disorders presented higher
odds for polypharmacy condition. Polypharmacy was significantly higher for all
groups in comparison with cognitively healthy participants: AD (OR 22.00, 95 % CI
6.11-79.11), MDD (OR 14.73, 95 % CI 3.69-58.75) and MCI (OR 10.31, 95 % CI
2.44-43.59). Elderly patients with AD presented more severe comorbidities and
higher risks for dyslipidemia.
CONCLUSION: Elderly patients with depression, dementia and mild cognitive
impairment have considerably higher odds for polypharmacy. People with dementia
also have greater comorbidity severity than those who are cognitively healthy. In
middle income countries, there is an urgent need to focus on promoting age-
appropriate health approaches for the elderly with mental illness to prevent the
development of aggravated cardiometabolic conditions and polypharmacy.
Copyright © 2020 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
de Lima, Juliana Dias, Teixeira, Ivan Abdalla, Silva, Felipe de Oliveira, Deslandes,
Andrea Camaz
Institution
de Lima, Juliana Dias. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.   Teixeira, Ivan Abdalla. Institute of Psychiatry,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Silva, Felipe de Oliveira. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Deslandes, Andrea Camaz. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
30.
  
Resting State Brain Network Function in Elderly: The Formation of Social Ties.
Oh S, Kim A, Kang E, Choi S
International Journal of Psychological Research. 13(2):59-67, 2020 Jul-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33329878
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to determine the relevance of the
relationship between brain network and the social ties management.
METHODS: Participants are based on 52 Korean seniors aged 65 and older who live
in Ganghwa-gun, Incheon. We used a closed-triad index (CTI), which is the most
basic unit of analysis in the study of group phenomena. This index is a social
networking variable that has been shown to have a different implication depending on
the subject's condition and role. After two questionnaire surveys were conducted at
three years intervals, participants were classified into an increased group and a
decreased group according to the change of CTI. Resting-state fMRI analysis were
followed to investigate the difference of brain networks between groups.
RESULTS: According to the analysis of the study, the whole participants who had
increased in number of CTI has higher local efficiency than the group of the
participants who had no effect or decreased in CTI.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that social relationship, which is substantially
related to brain network, is a major factor in successful aging. Lastly, since there is a
restriction that the study cannot explain the causal aspect of the brain network and
the triad-relationship, there is a need for further investigation.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Oh, Seolah, Kim, Aran, Kang, Eunji, Choi, Sungwon
Other Abstract
Publisher
ANTECEDENTES: El proposito de este estudio fue determinar la relevancia de la
relacion entre la red cerebral y el manejo de los lazos sociales.METODO: los
participantes son 52 adultos mayores coreanos de 65 anos o mas que viven en
Ganghwa-gun, Incheon. Utilizamos un indice de triada cerrada (CTI), que es la
unidad de analisis mas basica en el estudio de los fenomenos grupales. Este indice
es una variable de red social que ha demostrado tener una implicacion diferente
dependiendo de la condicion y el rol del sujeto. Despues de realizar dos encuestas
por cuestionario a intervalos de tres anos, los participantes se clasificaron en un
grupo aumentado y un grupo disminuido de acuerdo con el cambio de CTI. Se siguio
el analisis de fMRI en estado de reposo para investigar la diferencia de las redes
cerebrales entre los grupos.RESULTADOS: Segun el analisis del estudio, todos los
participantes que habian aumentado en numero de CTI tienen una mayor eficiencia
local que el grupo de participantes que no tuvieron ningun efecto o disminuyeron en
CTI.CONCLUSIONES: Nuestro estudio sugiere que la relacion social que estasustancialmente relacionada con la red cerebral es un factor importante en el
envejecimiento exitoso. Por ultimo, dado que existe una restriccion de que el estudio
no puede explicar el aspecto causal de la red cerebral y la relacion triada, existe la
necesidad de una mayor investigacion.
Language: Spanish
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
31.
  
Evaluation of a Novel Technology-Based Program Designed to Assess and Train
Everyday Skills in Older Adults.
Czaja SJ, Kallestrup P, Harvey PD
Innovation in Aging. 4(6):igaa052, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33324761
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Performance of everyday activities is often
challenging for older adults. We evaluated a novel computer-based functional skills
assessment and training (CFSAT) program, which includes simulations of everyday
tasks (e.g., money and medication management).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The sample included noncognitively
impaired (NC) older adults (n = 51) and cognitively impaired (CI) older adults (n =
43), who ranged in age from 60 to 86 years (M = 73.12; SD = 6.06), were primarily
female (90%), and ethnically diverse (23% Hispanic, 51% African American).
Participants (stratified by cognitive status) were randomized to 1 of the 2 conditions
training alone (CFSAT) or CFSAT with computerized cognitive training and trained up
to 24 training sessions. Task performance, using measures of completion time and
efficiency (accuracy/completion time), was evaluated at baseline, the final training
session, and immediately posttraining with an alternate form of the CFSAT
assessment.
RESULTS: Both NC and CI participants demonstrated significant performance
improvements across all tasks following training (all ps < .001). The CI participants
demonstrated reduced training gains compared to the NC participants (all ps < .001).
Training gains did not vary as a function of training conditions.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: The findings suggest that CFSAT is an
efficacious program for assessing and training everyday task performance. CFSAT
can ultimately be used as an intervention strategy to enhance functional
independence for aging adults with and without cognitive impairments.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
The Gerontological Society of America.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Czaja, Sara J, Kallestrup, Peter, Harvey, Philip D
Institution
Czaja, Sara J. Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Center on Aging andBehavioral Research, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York.   Kallestrup,
Peter. i-Function Inc., Miami, Florida.
Harvey, Philip D. Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, University of
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Florida.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
32.
  
Montreal Cognitive Assessment as Screening Measure for Mild and Major
Neurocognitive Disorder in a Chilean Population.
Bello-Lepe S, Alonso-Sanchez MF, Ortega A, Gaete M, Veliz M, Lira J, Perez Salas
CP
Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders Extra. 10(3):105-114, 2020 Sep-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33250917
BACKGROUND: The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) is a sensitive
screening instrument for mild neurocognitive disorder (mild NCD). However, cut-off
scores and accuracy indices should be established using representative samples of
the population. In this context, the aim of this study was to update the normative
values, and diagnostic efficiency statistics of the MoCA to detect mild NCD in the
Chilean population.
METHODS: This study included 226 participants from the north, center, and south of
the country, classified into 3 groups: healthy elderly (HE; n = 113), mild NCD (n =
65), and major neurocognitive disorder (major NCD; n = 48).
RESULTS: The optimal cut-off score to discriminate mild NCD from HE participants
was 20 points with a sensitivity of 82.8% and a specificity of 84.1%. The observed
balance between sensitivity and specificity shows a good test performance either to
confirm or discard a diagnosis. The cut-off between mild NCD and major NCD from
HE participants was 19 points with 85.6% of sensitivity and 90.3% of specificity.
CONCLUSION: Overall diagnostic accuracy can be considered as outstanding (AUC
>=0.904) when discriminating HE from both mild NCD and major NCD. These results
showed that the MoCA is a suitable tool to identify mild NCD and major NCD.
Copyright © 2020 by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Bello-Lepe, Sebastian, Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca, Ortega, Alonso, Gaete,
Marcelo, Veliz, Marcela, Lira, Juan, Perez Salas, Claudia Paz
Institution
Bello-Lepe, Sebastian. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de Fonoaudiologia,
Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.   Bello-Lepe, Sebastian. Psychology
and Language Sciences Division, University College London, London, United
Kingdom.
Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de
Fonoaudiologia, Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Psychology and Language Sciences Division,
University College London, London, United Kingdom.
Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Centro de Investigacion del Desarrollo en
Cognicion y Lenguaje, CIDCL-UV, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valparaiso,
Vina del Mar, Chile.
Ortega, Alonso. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de Fonoaudiologia, Universidad de
Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.
Ortega, Alonso. Psychology and Language Sciences Division, University College
London, London, United Kingdom.
Ortega, Alonso. Centro de Investigacion del Desarrollo en Cognicion y Lenguaje,
CIDCL-UV, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.
Gaete, Marcelo. Escuela de Psicologia, Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile.
Veliz, Marcela. Escuela de Psicologia, Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile.
Lira, Juan. Departamento de Psicologia, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Universidad
de Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.
Perez Salas, Claudia Paz. Departamento de Psicologia, Facultad de Ciencias
Sociales, Universidad de Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
33.
  
The protective effect of PK11195 on D-galactose-induced amnestic mild cognitive
impairment in rats.
Ye C, Lin L, Zhang P, Chen Y, Huang J, Lin X
Annals of Translational Medicine. 8(18):1190, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33241039
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the preventive effect of translocator
protein 18kDa (TSPO) ligand PK11195 on amnestic mild cognitive impairment
(aMCI), as well as its influence on astrocytes, in order to identify effective ways to
prevent aMCI.
METHODS: Male SD rats were randomly divided into control group (n=10), aMCI
group (n=10), PK11195 group (n=10), PK11195 + D-gal group (n=10). The
preventive effect of PK11195 on aMCI in rats was evaluated. The cognitive function
of rats in four different treatment groups was determined using the Morris water maze
(MWM), as well as whole-brain pathology and immunofluorescence of rat brain
tissue.
RESULTS: The results of the MWM behavioral test showed that rats pre-treated with
PK11195 had improved escape latency and a higher number of platform crossings
compared with the aMCI model rats. PK11195 was also shown to prevent the D-
galactose (D-gal)-induced senescence of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA1
region and to inhibit the apoptosis of astrocytes. At the same time, compared with the
aMCI model rats, the TSPO in the brain tissue of rats pretreated with PK11195 had a
lower distribution density.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results prove that PK11195 can effectively prevent D-gal-
induced decline of learning and memory function as well as inhibit abnormal changes
of related cells.Copyright 2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Ye, Chen, Lin, Lanying, Zhang, Peiling, Chen, Yi, Huang, Jinghao, Lin, Xianzhong
Institution
Ye, Chen. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.   Ye, Chen. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Lanying. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Lanying. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Zhang, Peiling. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Zhang, Peiling. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Chen, Yi. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Chen, Yi. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Huang, Jinghao. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Huang, Jinghao. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou,
China.
Lin, Xianzhong. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Xianzhong. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
34.
  
The association of smart mobile phone usage with cognitive function impairment in
Saudi adult population.
Al-Khlaiwi TM, Habib SS, Meo SA, Alqhtani MS, Ogailan AA
Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences. 36(7):1628-1633, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33235587
BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Excessive use of mobile phones has raised a great
concern about adverse health effects on human health. The present study's aim was
to investigate the association of the usage of smartphones with cognitive function
impairment in the Saudi adult population.
METHODS: The present cross-sectional study was conducted in the Department of
Physiology, College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia during
September 2019 to January 2020. A total of 251 Saudi adults who were using mobile
phones were recruited, and knowledge, attitude and practices were assessed by
interview using a predesigned proforma. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment(MOCA) tool was employed to assess the cognitive functions, comparison was made
between daily mobile phone usage group and their correlated Montreal Cognitive
Score (MOCA).
RESULTS: The mean age for 251 Saudi adult participants was 32.43 +/- 12.8 years.
More than 80% of the participants used their mobile phone for more than two hours
daily. About 61% of the participants were not aware of the side effect of the radiation
generated from mobile phone. The participants showed a decrease in MOCA score
with increased daily mobile phone usage (MOCA=26.8 for <1 hour daily usage, 26.1
for 1-2 hours, and 24.6 for >2 hours with P< 0.05). In addition, participants showed
decreased MOCA score by keeping their mobile phone near their pillow while
sleeping; MOCA=24.35 for near pillow groups and >25.5 for the groups that placed
their mobile phone away from the pillow.
CONCLUSIONS: Excessive use of mobile phones can cause cognitive function
impairment. Strict policies must be implemented to control the use of smartphones in
order to minimize the effects on mobile phone radiation on cognition. The media has
to be on the forefront in educating the public about the proper usage of mobile
phones.
Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Al-Khlaiwi, Thamir M, Habib, Syed Shahid, Meo, Sultan Ayoub, Alqhtani, Mohammed
S, Ogailan, Abeer A
Institution
Al-Khlaiwi, Thamir M. Thamir M. Al-Khlaiwi Department of Physiology, College of
Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.   Habib, Syed Shahid. Syed
Shahid Habib Department of Physiology, College of Medicine, King Saud University,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Meo, Sultan Ayoub. Sultan Ayoub Meo Department of Physiology, College of
Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Alqhtani, Mohammed S. Mohammed S Alqhtani Medical Student, College of
Medicine, King Saud University.
Ogailan, Abeer A. Abeer A. Ogailan Independent Researcher.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
35.
  
Effect of Pentoxifylline on Apoptotic-Related Gene Expression Profile, Learning and
Memory Impairment Induced by Systemic Lipopolysaccharide Administration in the
Rat Hippocampus.
Akbari Z, Reisi P, Torkaman-Boutorabi A, Farahmandfar M
International Journal of Preventive Medicine. 11:151, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33209221
BACKGROUND: Inflammation is one of the effective factors, in the development offunctional disorders of the nervous system. Pentoxifylline (PTX) has an inhibitory
effect on inflammatory factors. Therefore the aim of this study was to evaluate the
effect of PTX on learning, memory and expression of genes, involved in neuronal
survival in the rat hippocampus, following systemic lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
injection.
METHODS: Male rats were randomly divided into 5 groups of control, LPS and LPS
+ PTX, receiving doses of 10, 25 and 50 mg/kg of PTX, respectively. In LPS groups,
LPS was injected (5 mg/kg; intraperitoneal), and after one week, rats received
intraperitoneal PTX for 14 days, in the treatment groups. Learning and memory were
evaluated by object location task (OLT) and novel object recognition (NOR). Then,
the hippocampus was dissected in order to measure the expression of the associated
genes.
RESULTS: The results showed that peripheral LPS injection caused significant
damage (P < 0.01) to learning and memory with respect to controls, but PTX with
doses of 10 and 50 mg/kg prevented these impairments. Results from reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) showed that LPS significantly
increased the expression of Bax and TNF- alpha with respect to controls. PTX in the
LPS + PTX group significantly increased the expression of Bcl-2, BAD and Caspase-
3.
CONCLUSIONS: Other than the increased Bcl-2 expression, PTX had no significant
effect on the expression of other genes, therefore further studies are needed to find
out how PTX improves the learning and memory impairments, following the
peripheral inflammation.
Copyright: © 2020 International Journal of Preventive Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Akbari, Zahra, Reisi, Parham, Torkaman-Boutorabi, Anahita, Farahmandfar, Maryam
Institution
Akbari, Zahra. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School of
Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.   Akbari, Zahra. International Campuses, Tehran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Reisi, Parham. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Torkaman-Boutorabi, Anahita. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies,
School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Farahmandfar, Maryam. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School
of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.
Farahmandfar, Maryam. Electrophysiology Research Center, Neuroscience Institute,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 36.
  
Age- and Sex-Specific Prevalence and Modifiable Risk Factors of Mild Cognitive
Impairment Among Older Adults in China: A Population-Based Observational Study.
Fu J, Liu Q, Du Y, Zhu Y, Sun C, Lin H, Jin M, Ma F, Li W, Liu H, Zhang X, Chen Y,
Sun Z, Wang G, Huang G
Frontiers in aging neuroscience. 12:578742, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33192471
BACKGROUND: Minimal data are available on the prevalence of mild cognitive
impairment (MCI) in older Chinese adults. Moreover, the current information on MCI
shows important geographical variations.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to assess the prevalence and risk factors for MCI by age
and sex among older adults in a North Chinese population.
METHODS: In this population-based cross-sectional study, we enrolled a random
sample of 4,943 adults aged >= 60 years between March 2018 and June 2019 in
Tianjin, China. Of these, 312 individuals were excluded due to a lack of data (e.g.,
fasting blood test). As a result, 4,631 subjects were assessed. Individuals with MCI
were identified using neuropsychological assessments, including the Mini-Mental
State Examination and Activities of Daily Living scale, based on a modified version of
the Petersen's criteria.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) age of the 4,631 participants was 67.6 (4.89) years, and
2,579 (55.7%) were female. The overall age- and sex-standardized prevalence of
MCI in our study population was 10.7%. There were significant associations of MCI
with age [65-69 vs. 60-64 years, OR = 0.74; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.58,
0.96], physical activity (>=23.0 vs. <23.0 MET-hours/week, OR = 0.79; 95% CI: 0.64,
0.96), body mass index (BMI) (OR = 0.92; 95% CI: 0.89, 0.95), grip strength (OR =
0.50; 95% CI: 0.38, 0.67), hypertension (yes vs. no, OR = 1.44; 95% CI: 1.18, 1.77),
higher levels of sleepiness (OR = 1.80; 95% CI: 1.36, 2.37), and longer sleep
duration (OR = 1.40; 95% CI: 1.14, 1.72). The inverse association between BMI and
MCI was stronger in older age groups (P for heterogeneity = 0.003). Moreover, the
magnitude of association between triglycerides and MCI was different between the
sexes (P for heterogeneity = 0.029).
CONCLUSION: The age- and sex-standardized prevalence of MCI was 10.7% in the
study sample. Physical activity, BMI, grip strength, sleepiness, sleep duration, and
hypertension were associated with the prevalence of MCI. Additionally, triglycerides
and BMI might be differently associated with the presence of MCI for different sexes
and age stages, respectively.
Copyright © 2020 Fu, Liu, Du, Zhu, Sun, Lin, Jin, Ma, Li, Liu, Zhang, Chen, Sun,
Wang and Huang.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Fu, Jingzhu, Liu, Qian, Du, Yue, Zhu, Yun, Sun, Changqing, Lin, Hongyan, Jin,
Mengdi, Ma, Fei, Li, Wen, Liu, Huan, Zhang, Xumei, Chen, Yongjie, Sun, Zhuoyu,
Wang, Guangshun, Huang, Guowei
Institution
Fu, Jingzhu. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.   Fu, Jingzhu. Tianjin Key Laboratory of
Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Qian. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Qian. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Du, Yue. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.Du, Yue. Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public
Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Zhu, Yun. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Zhu, Yun. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Sun, Changqing. Neurosurgical Department of Baodi Clinical College of Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Lin, Hongyan. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Lin, Hongyan. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Jin, Mengdi. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Jin, Mengdi. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Ma, Fei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Ma, Fei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Li, Wen. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Li, Wen. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Liu, Huan. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Huan. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Zhang, Xumei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Zhang, Xumei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Chen, Yongjie. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Chen, Yongjie. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Sun, Zhuoyu. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Sun, Zhuoyu. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Wang, Guangshun. Department of Tumor, Baodi Clinical College of Tianjin Medical
University, Tianjin, China.
Huang, Guowei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Huang, Guowei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
  
37.
  
Montreal Cognitive Assessment - Single Cutoff Achieves Screening Purpose.
Yeung PY, Wong LLL, Chan CC, Yung CY, Leung LMJ, Tam YY, Tang LN, Li HS,
Lau ML
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:2681-2687, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33192067
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The study evaluated the performance between
norm-derived age and education adjusted vs single cutoff scores of the Montreal
Cognitive Assessment, Hong Kong version (HK-MoCA) in classifying cognitive
impairment in Chinese older adults.
METHODS: Total scores of HK-MoCA were collected from 315 subjects (128 with
dementia, 122 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 65 normal) attending a
public district hospital-based cognition clinic from 2012 to 2017. The HK-MoCA total
scores were evaluated using different cutoffs. Norm-derived age and education
adjusted cutoff scores were at 16th, 7th, and 2nd percentiles. Comparison was made
with the single cutoff scores validated in a local study with 21/22 for MCI and 18/19
for dementia.
RESULTS: Single cutoff score of HK-MoCA differentiated MCI from normal with
sensitivity of 0.861 and specificity of 0.723. To detect dementia, its sensitivity was
0.922, and specificity was 0.923. In identifying cognitive impairment, the sensitivity
and specificity were 0.932 and 0.723, respectively. However, age and education
adjusted cutoff scores achieved high specificities at all levels of cognitive impairment
with trade-off of sensitivities. The accuracy of correctly classifying tested subjects into
appropriate groups was 85.3% if single cutoff was used though the consistency
between norm-derived cutoffs and expert diagnoses were only 59.0%, 54.2%, and
53.9% at 16th, 7th, and 2nd percentiles, respectively. The consistency decreased
with older age and lower education level, and majority of misclassifications were false
negatives.
CONCLUSION: HK-MoCA is a convenient screening tool to detect cognitive
impairment. Administration time is relatively short, and it has incorporated essential
cognitive domains. Single cutoff scores with inherent simple education adjustment
achieved screening purpose of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in Chinese
older adults.
Copyright © 2020 Yeung et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Yeung, Pui Yu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1817-5223   Chan, Chun Chung;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8118-9460 
Yung, Cho Yiu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5401-7030 
Authors Full Name
Yeung, Pui Yu, Wong, L L Louise, Chan, Chun Chung, Yung, Cho Yiu, Leung, L M
Jess, Tam, Yuen Yee, Tang, Lap Nin, Li, Hiu Sze, Lau, Mei Ling
Institution
Yeung, Pui Yu. Department of Medicine, Tung Wah Eastern Hospital, Causeway
Bay, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.   Wong,
L L Louise. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Chan, Chun Chung. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Yung, Cho Yiu. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Leung, L M Jess. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong SpecialAdministrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Tam, Yuen Yee. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Tang, Lap Nin. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Li, Hiu Sze. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital, Kwun
Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Lau, Mei Ling. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
38.
  
Prevalence and Predictors of Neurocognitive Impairment in Ethiopian Population
Living with HIV.
Salahuddin M, Manzar MD, Hassen HY, Unissa A, Abdul Hameed U, Spence DW,
Pandi-Perumal SR
HIV/AIDS Research and Palliative Care. 12:559-572, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33116918
BACKGROUND: Modern antiretroviral therapy has extended the life expectancies of
people living with HIV; however, the prevention and treatment of their associated
neurocognitive decline have remained a challenge. Consequently, it is desirable to
investigate the prevalence and predictors of neurocognitive impairment to help in
targeted screening and disease prevention.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred and forty-four people living with HIV
were interviewed in a study using a cross-sectional design and the International HIV
Dementia Scale (IHDS). Additionally, the sociodemographic, clinical, and
psychosocial characteristics of the patients were recorded. Chi-square and binary
logistic regression analysis were used to determine the level of significance among
the independent risk factors and probable neurocognitive impairment.
RESULTS: The point prevalence of neurocognitive impairment was found to be
39.3%. Participants ' characteristics of being older than 40 years (AOR= 2.81 (95%
CI; 1.11-7.15)), having a history of recreational drug use (AOR= 13.67 (95% CI; 6.42-
29.13)), and being non-compliant with prescribed medications (AOR= 2.99 (95% CI;
1.01-8.87)) were independent risk factors for neurocognitive impairment.
CONCLUSION: The identification of predictors, in the Ethiopian people living with
HIV, may help in the targeted screening of vulnerable groups during cART follow-up
visits. This may greatly help in strategizing and implementation of the prevention
program, more so, because (i) HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment is an
asymptomatic condition for considerable durations, and (ii) clinical trials on
neurocognitive impairment therapies have been unsuccessful.
Copyright © 2020 Salahuddin et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINEAuthor NameID
Salahuddin, Mohammed; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7306-5989   Manzar,
Md Dilshad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5571-3310 
Hassen, Hamid Yimam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6485-4193 
Abdul Hameed, Unaise; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6689-9958 
Spence, David Warren; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1664-6960 
Pandi-Perumal, Seithikurippu R; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8686-7259 
Authors Full Name
Salahuddin, Mohammed, Manzar, Md Dilshad, Hassen, Hamid Yimam, Unissa,
Aleem, Abdul Hameed, Unaise, Spence, David Warren, Pandi-Perumal,
Seithikurippu R
Institution
Salahuddin, Mohammed. Department of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Mizan-Tepi University (Mizan Campus), Mizan, Ethiopia.   Salahuddin,
Mohammed. Pharmacology Division, Department of BioMolecular Sciences,
University of Mississippi, Oxford, Mississippi, USA.
Manzar, Md Dilshad. Department of Nursing, College of Applied Medical Sciences,
Majmaah University, Al Majmaah 11952, Saudi Arabia.
Hassen, Hamid Yimam. Department of Public Health, College of Health Sciences,
Mizan Tepi University, (Mizan Campus), Mizan, Ethiopia.
Hassen, Hamid Yimam. Department of Primary and Interdisciplinary Care, College of
Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
Unissa, Aleem. Malla Reddy College of Pharmacy, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.
Abdul Hameed, Unaise. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing
and Health Sciences, Monash University, Australia.
Spence, David Warren. Independent Researcher, Toronto, ON M6K 2B4, Canada.
Pandi-Perumal, Seithikurippu R. Somnogen Canada Inc, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
39.
  
Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of Elderly Outpatients with Type 2 Diabetes
Mellitus in National Geriatric Hospital, Vietnam.
Nguyen AT, Pham HQ, Nguyen TX, Nguyen TTH, Nguyen HTT, Nguyen TN, Dinh
DTK, Phan HT, Nguyen SH, Tran BX, Latkin CA, Ho RCM, Ho CSH, Pham T, Vu
HTT
Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity Targets and Therapy. 13:3909-3917,
2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33116737
BACKGROUND: Diabetes-related complications have become increasingly prevalent
and complicated to manage, especially among frail older adults with co-morbidities,
poor physical function, and impaired cognition. Thus, knowledge, attitude, and
practice (KAP) of elderly diabetic patients play an essential role in controlling the
disease and its complications.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted on 176 diabetic
patients at the outpatient clinics, National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam fromAugust to November 2015. Patients' knowledge, attitude, and practice regarding
diabetes mellitus were assessed using a structured questionnaire. Exploratory factor
analysis and multivariate Tobit regression model were used to identify factors
associated with knowledge, attitude, practice about diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS: Of 176 diabetic patients, patients' knowledge was divided into two main
groups: "Diabetes definition and management" (mean score = 57.7 +/- 25.6) and
"Targets for diabetic control" (mean score = 66.1 +/- 30.4). Patients scored high
points of attitudes toward diabetes severity and its complications (mean score = 95.8
+/- 13.0); however, knowledge and practice scores were only moderate (mean score
= 68.1 +/- 16.8). There were only 8.5% of people having daily self-blood glucose
monitoring. Advanced age, low educational level, rural area, and duration of diabetes
less than 5 years were negative associated with knowledge, attitude, and practice
regarding diabetes mellitus. This study also shows that frailty and co-
morbidities/diabetic complications could impair patients' knowledge.
CONCLUSION: Older patients with diabetes had high levels of perceived severity
attitudes on diabetes mellitus. However, the knowledge and practice levels were still
inadequate. Pragmatic diabetic health literacy, counseling and education programs,
as well as home-based treatments are viable options to improve health outcomes.
Copyright © 2020 Nguyen et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9858-9268   Nguyen, Thu
Thi Hoai; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5024-2812 
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6738-7663 
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9265-1887 
Latkin, Carl A; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7931-2116 
Ho, Roger C M; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9629-4493 
Ho, Cyrus S H; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7092-9566 
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3132-3801 
Authors Full Name
Nguyen, Anh Trung, Pham, Hai Quang, Nguyen, Thanh Xuan, Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai,
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu, Nguyen, Tam Ngoc, Dinh, Dung Thi Kim, Phan, Hai Thanh,
Nguyen, Son Hoang, Tran, Bach Xuan, Latkin, Carl A, Ho, Roger C M, Ho, Cyrus S
H, Pham, Thang, Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh
Institution
Nguyen, Anh Trung. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.   Nguyen, Anh Trung.
National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Pham, Hai Quang. Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Da
Nang, Vietnam.
Pham, Hai Quang. Faculty of Medicine, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000,
Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. Dinh Tien Hoang Institute of Medicine, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Dinh, Dung Thi Kim. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Phan, Hai Thanh. Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Da
Nang, Vietnam.
Phan, Hai Thanh. Faculty of Medicine, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000,
Vietnam.Nguyen, Son Hoang. Center of Excellence in Health Services and System Research,
Nguyen Tat Thanh University, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam.
Tran, Bach Xuan. Institute for Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Hanoi Medical
University, Hanoi 100000, Vietnam.
Tran, Bach Xuan. Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
Latkin, Carl A. Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
Ho, Roger C M. Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Ho, Roger C M. Institute for Health Innovation and Technology (iHealthtech),
National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Ho, Cyrus S H. Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Pham, Thang. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
40.
  
Effects of HDAC inhibitors on spatial memory and memory extinction in SPS-induced
PTSD rats.
Mohammadi-Farani A, Pourmotabbed A, Ardeshirizadeh Y
Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences. 15(3):241-248, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33088324
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Neurobiological changes in memory processes
seem to play a role in the pathophysiology of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Memory itself is influenced by PTSD, too. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDAIs)
have shown promising results in the extinction of fear-related memories in animals
and hence they seem to be important for the treatment of PTSD. Data are scarce
about the effect of HDAIs in spatial memory formation/extinction in PTSD models.
The main goal of the present work is to find the effect of sodium butyrate (NaBu), as
an HDAI, on spatial memory and spatial memory extinction in rats exposed to single
prolonged stress procedure (SPS).
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Different doses of NaBu were administered
subcutaneously for 7 days in different groups of rats after SPS procedure. Learning,
memory, and extinction of memory were evaluated in the Morris water maze test of
spatial memory in 6 consecutive days.
FINDINGS / RESULTS: The results show that NaBu (0.5 mg/kg) alleviates impaired
learning and memory in SPS rats. It also facilitates the extinction of newly formed
memory in the animals.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Our data suggest that the administration of
HDAIs after a traumatic experience can prevent the aversive effects of SPS on
spatial memory. It also reinforces the notion that extinction of spatial memoryinvolves the same or similar brain circuitry that is involved in the extinction of fear
memories in PTSD patients.
Copyright: © 2020 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad, Pourmotabbed, Ali, Ardeshirizadeh, Yazdan
Institution
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad. Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health
Institute, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad. Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Medical
Services, School of Pharmacy, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences,
Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Pourmotabbed, Ali. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kermanshah
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Ardeshirizadeh, Yazdan. Student Research Committee, Kermanshah University of
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
41.
  
Protective effect of Mucuna pruriens against arsenic-induced liver and kidney
dysfunction and neurobehavioral alterations in rats.
Concessao P, Bairy LK, Raghavendra AP
Veterinary World. 13(8):1555-1566, 2020 Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33061227
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Intoxication of arsenic in rats is known to result in
neurological effects as well as liver and kidney dysfunction. Mucuna pruriens has
been identified for its medicinal properties. The aim of the study was to investigate
the protective effect of aqueous seed extract of M. pruriens on sodium arsenite-
induced memory impairment, liver, and kidney functions in rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiment was divided into short-term treatment
(45 days) and long-term treatment (90 days), with each group divided into nine sub-
groups consisting of six animals each. Sub-groups 1 and 2 served as normal, and N-
acetylcysteine (NAC) controls, respectively. Sub-groups 3-9 received sodium
arsenite in drinking water (50 mg/L). In addition, sub-group 4 received NAC (210
mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily, sub-groups 5-7 received aqueous seed extract of M.
pruriens (350 mg/kg b.wt, 530 mg/kg b.wt, and 700 mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily and
sub-groups 8 and 9 received a combination of NAC and aqueous seed extract of M.
pruriens (350 mg/kg b.wt and 530 mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily. Following the
treatment, the blood was drawn retro-orbitally to assess the liver (serum alanine
transaminase [ALT], serum aspartate transaminase, and serum alkaline
phosphatase) and kidney (serum urea and serum creatinine) functions. Learning and
memory were assessed by passive avoidance test. Animals were sacrificed by anoverdose of ketamine, and their Nissl stained hippocampal sections were analyzed
for alterations in neural cell numbers in CA1 and CA3 regions.
RESULTS: In the short-term treatment, groups administered with M. pruriens 530
mg/kg b.wt alone and combination of NAC + M. pruriens 350 mg/kg b.wt exhibited a
significant improvement in memory retention, less severe neurodegeneration, and
decrease in serum ALT levels. In long-term treatment, groups administered with M.
pruriens 700 mg/kg b.wt alone and combination of NAC+M. pruriens 350 mg/kg b.wt,
respectively, showed better memory retention, decreased neural deficits, and
reduced levels of kidney and liver enzymes.
CONCLUSION: The seed extract of M. pruriens showed significant enhancement in
memory and learning. The number of surviving neurons in the CA1 and CA3 regions
also increased on treatment with M. pruriens. Serum ALT, serum urea, and serum
creatinine levels showed significant improvement on long-term treatment with M.
pruriens.
Copyright: © Concessao, et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Concessao, Preethi, Bairy, Laxminarayana Kurady, Raghavendra, Archana
Parampalli
Institution
Concessao, Preethi. Department of Physiology, Melaka Manipal Medical College,
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.   Bairy,
Laxminarayana Kurady. Department of Pharmacology, RAK College of Medical
Sciences, RAK Medical and Health Sciences University, Ras Al Khaimah, United
Arab Emirates.
Raghavendra, Archana Parampalli. Department of Physiology, Melaka Manipal
Medical College, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
42.
  
The Role of Nutrition and Inflammation on Cognition in a High-Risk Group for
Alzheimer's Disease.
Jackson JM, Bay AA, Barter JD, Ni L, Caudle WM, Serra MC, Wharton W, Hackney
ME
JAD Reports. 4(1):345-352, 2020 Aug 28.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33024941
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative
disease. Treatments are necessary to target people at high risk for AD. Inflammation,
particularly tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), appears to be an important
marker associated with the development of AD pathophysiology. Consuming a high-
fat diet induces tissue expression of TNFalpha.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the relationship between nutrition, circulatinginflammation, and cognition in African American women (age: M = 59.5 (+/-8.20) [42-
73] years) at risk for developing AD.
METHODS: Participants were split into high-fat and low-fat groups based on total
dietary fat consumption self-reported on the Lower Mississippi Delta Nutrition
Intervention Research Initiative Food Frequency Questionnaire (Delta NIRI FFQ).
RESULTS: A high-fat diet was associated with increased blood serum TNFalpha (p =
0.02) compared to the low-fat diet. In addition, global cognition scores were 9.0%
better in those who consumed a higher fat diet (p = 0.04). No significant differences
across groups were noted for executive function, dual-tasking, and visuospatial
performance.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that there may be multiple biological pathways
involved in AD development, suggesting the need for more holistic approaches to
mitigate AD-development risk.
Copyright © 2020 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jackson, Jordan M, Bay, Allison A, Barter, Jolie Denise, Ni, Liang, Caudle, William
Michael, Serra, Monica C, Wharton, Whitney, Hackney, Madeleine E
Institution
Jackson, Jordan M. Emory University's Rollins School of Public Health, Gangarosa
Department of Environmental Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.   Bay, Allison A. Emory
University School of Medicine Department of Medicine, Division of General Medicine
and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Barter, Jolie Denise. Emory University School of Medicine Department of Medicine,
Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Ni, Liang. Emory University School of Medicine Department of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Caudle, William Michael. Emory University's Rollins School of Public Health,
Gangarosa Department of Environmental Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Caudle, William Michael. Emory Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Atlanta, GA,
USA.
Serra, Monica C. Division of Geriatrics, Gerontology & Palliative Medicine,
Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio,
San Antonio, TX, USA.
Serra, Monica C. San Antonio Geriatrics Research, Education & Clinical Center,
South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
Wharton, Whitney. Emory University School of Nursing, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Medicine Department of
Medicine, Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Nursing, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Atlanta VA Center for Visual and Neurocognitive
Rehabilitation, Decatur, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Medicine, Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
43.
  
Normative Data for the Symbol Digit Modalities Test in Older White Australians and
Americans, African-Americans, and Hispanic/Latinos.
Ryan J, Woods RL, Britt CJ, Murray AM, Shah RC, Reid CM, Wolfe R, Nelson MR,
Orchard SG, Lockery JE, Trevaks RE, Storey E, behalf of the ASPREE Investigator
Group on
JAD Reports. 4(1):313-323, 2020 Aug 04.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33024939
BACKGROUND: Processing speed, which can be assessed using the Symbol Digit
Modalities Test (SDMT), is central to many brain functions. Processing speed
declines with advanced age but substantial impairments are indicative of brain injury
or disease.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to provide SDMT normative data for
older community-dwelling individuals in the U.S. and Australia.
METHODS: The ASPREE trial recruited 19,114 relatively healthy older men and
women in Australia and the U.S. from the general community. All participants were
without a diagnosis of dementia and with a Modified Mini-Mental State examination
score of 78 or more at enrolment. The SDMT was administered at baseline as part of
a neuropsychological test battery.
RESULTS: The median age of participants was 74 years (range 65-99), and 56%
were women. The median years of education was 12. Ethno-racial differences in
SDMT performance were observed and normative data were thus presented
separately for 16,289 white Australians, 1,082 white Americans, 891 African-
Americans, and 316 Hispanic/Latinos. There were consistent positive associations
found between SDMT and education level, and negative associations between
SDMT and age. Mean scores for women were consistently higher than men with the
exception of Hispanic/Latinos aged >=70 years.
CONCLUSION: This study provides comprehensive SDMT normative data for whites
(Australian and U.S.), Hispanic/Latinos, and African-Americans, according to gender,
age, and education level. These norms can be used clinically as reference standards
to screen for cognitive impairments in older individuals.
Copyright © 2020 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Ryan, Joanne; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7039-6325 
Authors Full Name
Ryan, Joanne, Woods, Robyn L, Britt, Carlene J, Murray, Anne M, Shah, Raj C,
Reid, Christopher M, Wolfe, Rory, Nelson, Mark R, Orchard, Suzanne G, Lockery,
Jessica E, Trevaks, Ruth E, Storey, Elsdon, behalf of the ASPREE Investigator
Group on
Institution
Ryan, Joanne. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.   Woods, Robyn L. School of Public Health and
Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Britt, Carlene J. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Murray, Anne M. Berman Center for Outcomes and Clinical Research, Hennepin
Health Research Institute and Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine,
Hennepin HealthCare and University of Minnesota, MN, USA.
Shah, Raj C. Department of Family Medicine and Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center,Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
Reid, Christopher M. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Reid, Christopher M. School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western
Australia, Australia.
Wolfe, Rory. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Nelson, Mark R. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Nelson, Mark R. Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania,
Hobart, Australia.
Orchard, Suzanne G. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Lockery, Jessica E. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Trevaks, Ruth E. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Storey, Elsdon. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
44.
  
Memory training combined with 3D visuospatial stimulus improves cognitive
performance in the elderly: pilot study.
Assed MM, Rocca CCA, Garcia YM, Khafif TC, Belizario GO, Toschi-Dias E, Serafim
AP
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(3):290-299, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32973982
Studies suggest that the engagement of aged participants in cognitive stimulation
programs can reduce expected cognitive decline associated with age.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of memory training (MT) associated with three-
dimensional multiple object tracking (3D-MOT) NeuroTracker (NT) in the elderly.
METHODS: Forty-four participants (>60 years of age) were recruited and randomly
distributed into two groups: experimental (EG; n=22) and comparative (CG; n=22).
Both groups performed 12 one-hour MT sessions, twice a week, consisting of
specific computerized stimuli associated with teaching of mnemonic strategies; 10
minutes of NT was part only of the EG's sessions. In pre- and post-training periods,
both groups were evaluated using a sociodemographic questionnaire,
neuropsychological assessment, as well as a specific measure offered by NT.
RESULTS: Both groups benefited from the MT and reported more positive feelings
regarding their memory and quality of life. However, the EG obtained better results in
tests consistent with the strategies trained and which involved attentional resources,
reaction time, visual processing speed, episodic, semantic, subjective and working
memory as well as aspects of social cognition.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that the combination of MT and 3D-MOTcontributed for a better cognitive performance in the EG. Thus, the results of the
present study encourage further research and the development of combined
cognitive interventions for the elderly population with and without cognitive deficits.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Assed, Mariana Medeiros; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0440-9914   Rocca,
Cristiana Castanho de Almeida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5237-0957 
Khafif, Tatiana Cohab; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0806-1249 
Belizario, Gabriel Okawa; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8260-4857 
Toschi-Dias, Edgar; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5226-2956 
Serafim, Antonio de Padua; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0676-1500 
Authors Full Name
Assed, Mariana Medeiros, Rocca, Cristiana Castanho de Almeida, Garcia, Yolanda
Maria, Khafif, Tatiana Cohab, Belizario, Gabriel Okawa, Toschi-Dias, Edgar, Serafim,
Antonio de Padua
Institution
Assed, Mariana Medeiros. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.   Rocca, Cristiana Castanho de Almeida. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and
Department of Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao
Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Garcia, Yolanda Maria. Department of Geriatrics, Faculdade de Medicina da
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Khafif, Tatiana Cohab. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Belizario, Gabriel Okawa. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Toschi-Dias, Edgar. Health Psychology Program, Universidade Metodista Sao Paulo,
Sao Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil.
Serafim, Antonio de Padua. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Serafim, Antonio de Padua. Health Psychology Program, Universidade Metodista
Sao Paulo, Sao Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Estudos sugerem que o envolvimento de idosos em programas de estimulacao
cognitiva pode reduzir o declinio cognitivo esperado associado a idade.OBJETIVO:
Avaliar os efeitos de um treinamento de memoria (TM) associado a um estimulo
visuoespacial tridimensional (3D-MOT) NeuroTracker (NT) em idosos.METODO:
Quarenta e quatro participantes (>60 anos) foram recrutados e distribuidos
aleatoriamente em dois grupos: experimental (GE; n=22) e comparativo (GC; n=22).
Ambos os grupos realizaram 12 sessoes do TM de uma hora, duas vezes por
semana, consistindo em estimulos computadorizados especificos associados ao
ensino de estrategias mnemonicas; apenas nas sessoes do GE foram utilizados 10
minutos com o NT. Nos periodos pre- e pos-treinamento, ambos os grupos foram
avaliados por meio de questionario sociodemografico, avaliacao neuropsicologica e
medidas cognitivas especificas do NT.RESULTADOS: Ambos os grupos se
beneficiaram do TM e relataram sentimentos mais positivos em relacao a memoria e
a qualidade de vida. No entanto, o GE obteve melhores resultados em testes
consistentes com as estrategias treinadas e que envolviam recursos atencionais,
tempo de reacao, velocidade de processamento visual, memoria episodica,
semantica, subjetiva e de trabalho, alem de aspectos da cognicaosocial.CONCLUSOES: Este estudo mostrou que a combinacao do TM e 3D-MOT
contribuiu para um melhor desempenho cognitivo no GE. Dessa forma, os resultados
do presente estudo incentivam novas pesquisas e o desenvolvimento de
intervencoes cognitivas combinadas para a populacao idosa com e sem deficits
cognitivos.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
45.
  
Dietary interventions and cognition of Alzheimer's disease patients: a systematic
review of randomized controlled trial.
Moreira SC, Jansen AK, Silva FM
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(3):258-282, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32973980
It is estimated that by 2030 there will be 82 million people in the world with dementia.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of dietary interventions on the cognitive
performance of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCT) was
conducted in the Scopus, PubMed, and Cochrane databases. Thirty-two RCT were
included.
RESULTS: Omega-3 fatty acid showed positive effects at different doses. Fortasyn
Connect seemed to be effective in the early stages of the disease. Probiotic,
Ginseng, Inositol and specialized nutritional formulas seemed to have a positive
effect on cognition. Most of the primary studies presented poor methodological
quality, included patients with mild AD, small samples, and did not obtain significative
results for all the cognitive outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of most dietary interventions on cognition in AD patients
remains inconclusive, however, several nutrients, isolated or not, show potential to
improve cognitive function in AD, especially in its early stages.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Moreira, Sophia Camargos; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4369-3797   Jansen,
Ann Kristine; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0254-7045 
Silva, Flavia Moraes; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0730-5424 
Authors Full Name
Moreira, Sophia Camargos, Jansen, Ann Kristine, Silva, Flavia Moraes
Institution
Moreira, Sophia Camargos. Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Ringgold
Standard Institution - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.   Jansen, Ann Kristine.
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Ringgold Standard Institution - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Silva, Flavia Moraes. Universidade Federal de Ciencias da Saude de Porto Alegre,Ringgold Standard Institution - Nutrition - Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Estima-se que ate 2030 havera 82 milhoes de pessoas no mundo com
demencia.OBJETIVO: Avaliar o efeito de intervencoes dieteticas no desempenho
cognitivo de individuos com DA.METODOS: Foi realizada uma revisao sistematica
de ensaios clinicos randomizados (ECR) nas bases de dados Scopus, PubMed e
Cochrane. Trinta e dois ECRs foram incluidos.RESULTADOS: Acidos graxos
omega-3 apresentaram efeitos positivos em diferentes doses. O Fortasyn Connect
mostrou-se efetivo em estagios iniciais. Probioticos, Ginseng, Inositol e formulas
nutricionais especializadas tambem demonstraram efeito positivo sobre a cognicao.
A maioria dos estudos primarios apresentou baixa qualidade metodologica, incluiu
pacientes com DA leve e amostras pequenas e nao obteve resultados significativos
para todos os desfechos cognitivos.CONCLUSOES: O efeito da maioria das
intervencoes dieteticas em pacientes com DA permanece inconclusivo; entretanto,
varios nutrientes, isolados ou nao, apresentam potencial para melhorar a funcao
cognitiva na DA, principalmente em seu estagio inicial.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
46.
  
Usnic acid improves memory impairment after cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injuries
by anti-neuroinflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-apoptotic properties.
Erfani S, Valadbeigi T, Aboutaleb N, Karimi N, Moghimi A, Khaksari M
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(9):1225-1231, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32963745
OBJECTIVES: Cerebral ischemia/reperfusion causes complex pathological
mechanisms that lead to brain tissue damage. Usnic acid is a lichen secondary
metabolite that has many different biological properties including anti-inflammatory
and anti-oxidant activities. Therefore, the objective of the current study was to
investigate the neuroprotective effects of usnic acid on apoptotic cell death,
neuroinflammation, anti-oxidant enzyme activities, and oxidative stress levels after
transient cerebral ischemia/reperfusion.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two male Wistar rats were randomly assigned
to three groups (sham, ischemia/reperfusion, and ischemia/reperfusion+usnic acid).
Ischemia was induced by 20 min occlusion of common carotid arteries. Injection of
usnic acid (25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and saline was done at the beginning of
reperfusion time. Morris water maze was applied to assess spatial memory. The
protein expression amount was measured using immunohistochemical and
immunofluorescence staining. Spectrophotometric assay was performed to
determine the levels of anti-oxidant enzymes.
RESULTS: Usnic acid significantly reduced caspase-3, glial fibrillary acidic protein-
positive and ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1-positive cells (P<0.001) and
enhanced spatial memory disorders (P<0.05) due to brain ischemia. In addition,
treatment with usnic acid improves effects in the antioxidant system followingcerebral ischemia (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that usnic acid has neuroprotective properties,
which possibly is applicable as a promising candidate for cerebral injuries caused by
ischemia.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Erfani, Sohaila, Valadbeigi, Tahereh, Aboutaleb, Nahid, Karimi, Naser, Moghimi, Ali,
Khaksari, Mehdi
Institution
Erfani, Sohaila. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ilam University, Ilam,
Iran.   Valadbeigi, Tahereh. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ilam
University, Ilam, Iran.
Aboutaleb, Nahid. Physiology Research Center and Department of Physiology,
Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aboutaleb, Nahid. Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Karimi, Naser. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Razi University of
Kermanshah, Kermanshah, Iran.
Moghimi, Ali. Rayan Center for Neuroscience and Behavior, Department of Biology,
Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
Khaksari, Mehdi. School of Medicine, Shahroud University of Medical Sciences,
Shahroud, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
47.
  
Prevalence of potentially inappropriate prescriptions in primary care and correlates
with mild cognitive impairment.
Harasani K, Xhafaj D, Begolli A, Olvera-Porcel MC
Pharmacy Practice. 18(3):2017, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32922574
BACKGROUND: Potentially inappropriate prescribing is clearly associated with
adverse health consequences among older people. Nevertheless, scarce evidence
exists regarding the prevalence of potentially inappropriate prescriptions (PIP) in
Albania, a Western Balkans country.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of PIP among older
Albanian patients in primary care and to determine the associated sociodemographic
and medical factors, including the presence of mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: Cross-sectional study in two primary healthcare centers located in two
different cities of Albania, a middle-income country in the Western Balkans. The
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) tool was applied to evaluate MCI. PIPs were
assessed by two trained pharmacists using the Beers criteria 2019 update.
Multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted for possible risk factorspredicting PIP in the study population.
RESULTS: At least one PIP was identified among 40.23 % of the participants (174
older patients) and 10.35 % had more than one PIP. MCI was detected among 79.31
% of the patients. The most commonly represented drug groups in PIP were diuretics
(24.71 %), benzodiazepines in the presence of MCI and antidepressants (both 8.62
%). The lack of electrolytes monitoring was the most common reason for PIP.
According to the multivariate analysis, the only statistically significant association
observed was between PIP and number of drugs prescribed [three to four drugs (OR
3.34; 95% CI 1.65:6.76), five or more than five drugs (OR 4.08; 95% CI 1.42:11.69)].
CONCLUSIONS: About four out of 10 older Albanian patients experience PIP in
primary care. Further studies are needed for a comprehensive estimation of the
prevalence and factors associated with PIP, particularly among elderly with mild
cognitive impairment.
Copyright: © Pharmacy Practice and the Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Harasani, Klejda; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1877-6662   Xhafaj, Delina;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9166-8270 
Begolli, Anxhela; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9786-4443 
Olvera-Porcel, Maria C; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8374-064X 
Authors Full Name
Harasani, Klejda, Xhafaj, Delina, Begolli, Anxhela, Olvera-Porcel, Maria C
Institution
Harasani, Klejda. PhD. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Medicine of Tirana. Tirana (Albania). klejda.harasani@umed.edu.al.   Xhafaj, Delina.
PhD. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Medicine of Tirana.
Tirana (Albania). delinahudhra@gmail.com.
Begolli, Anxhela. MSc. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Medicine of Tirana. Tirana (Albania). anxhelabegolli@hotmail.com.
Olvera-Porcel, Maria C. PhD. Public Foundation for Biomedical Research of Oriental
Andalusia. Granada (Spain). manme_olv@hotmail.com.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
48.
  
Impaired cerebral hemodynamics in late-onset depression: computed tomography
angiography, computed tomography perfusion, and magnetic resonance imaging
evaluation.
Wang J, Li R, Liu M, Nie Z, Jin L, Lu Z, Li Y
Quantitative Imaging in Medicine & Surgery. 10(9):1763-1774, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32879855
BACKGROUND: Late-onset depression (LOD) is often difficult to recognize when
there is an absence of a family history of depression and less severepsychopathology. Increasing evidence has shown that the development and course
of LOD symptomatology are associated with cerebrovascular comorbidities and
cerebral microvascular lesions. This study was designed to evaluate the associations
of LOD with macrovascular and microvascular changes in the brain by using a multi-
imaging method, including computed tomography angiography (CTA), CT perfusion
(CTP), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to explore the course and
pathomechanism of LOD.
METHODS: A total of 116 participants were divided into two groups. Participants
older than 60 years who met the diagnostic criteria of depression [International
Classification of Diseases (ICD), 10th Edition] were enrolled in the LOD group, and
the remainder were age- and sex-matched into the control group. The
cognitive/mood status of all participants was evaluated by an experienced
neuropsychologist. Global and regional mean cerebral blood flow (CBF) were
measured by CT cerebrovascular perfusion imaging; the stenosis of the bilateral
intracranial large arteries (internal carotid artery, anterior cerebral artery, middle
cerebral artery, posterior cerebral artery, and vertebral artery) was recorded by CTA;
regional white matter hyperintensity (WMH) loads were evaluated by fluid-attenuated
inversion recovery (FLAIR) MRI; and the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) was
used to evaluate depression status.
RESULTS: Our key findings were the following: (I) participants in the LOD group
were more prone to intracranial arterial stenosis (81.1% vs. 74.6%), had more severe
stenotic arteries compared with controls (Z=2.024, P<0.05), and significantly more
participants with LOD had severe stenosis of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) (9.4%
vs. 0%, P<0.05); (II) there was a significant difference in hypoperfusion of the frontal
and parietal lobes superposed on global cerebral hypoperfusion between the two
groups (P<0.001); (III) and there was a significant difference in high WMH loads in
deep white matter (DWM) between the two groups (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A low global or regional perfusion state, moderate-to-severe
stenosis of MCAs, and high WMH loads could be used as imaging biomarkers to
indicate diffuse or localized cerebral macrovascular and microvascular pathology in
LOD.
Copyright 2020 Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Wang, Jinhong, Li, Renren, Liu, Meng, Nie, Zhiyu, Jin, Lingjing, Lu, Zheng, Li, Yunxia
Institution
Wang, Jinhong. Department of Medical Imaging, Shanghai Mental Health Center,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.   Li, Renren.
Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine,
Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Liu, Meng. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Nie, Zhiyu. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Jin, Lingjing. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Lu, Zheng. Department of Psychiatry, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Li, Yunxia. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
49.
  
Effects of Levetiracetam Compared to Valproate on Cognitive Functions of Patients
with Epilepsy.
El Sabaa RM, Hamdi E, Hamdy NA, Sarhan HA
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1945-1953, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32848400
OBJECTIVE: This study compared the effect of levetiracetam (LEV) as monotherapy
to sodium valproate (VPA) as monotherapy on cognitive functions in patients with
epilepsy.
METHODS: This was a comparative prospective study on 50 patients with newly
diagnosed epilepsy started on antiseizure medications. Patients were selected from
the neurology-outpatient clinics at Minia University Hospital, Minia, Egypt. They were
divided into two groups: group treated with LEV and group treated with VPA. All
patients were subjected to cognitive function assessment using reaction-time tests,
trail-making tests, and Wisconsin card-sorting test before treatment and 3 months
after treatment.
RESULTS: Both groups of patients showed reduction in seizure frequency. However,
patients on LEV showed significant improvement in measured cognitive functions 3
months after starting treatment, while patients in the VPA group showed significant
impairment in measured cognitive functions 3 months after starting treatment.
CONCLUSION: Both groups of patients showed reduction in seizure frequency.
However, patients on LEV showed significant improvement in measured cognitive
functions 3 months after starting treatment, while patients in the VPA group showed
significant impairment in measured cognitive functions 3 months after starting
treatment.
Copyright © 2020 El Sabaa et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
El Sabaa, Ramy M, Hamdi, Emad, Hamdy, Nermin Aly, Sarhan, Hatem A
Institution
El Sabaa, Ramy M. Clinical Pharmacy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Deraya
University, Minia, Egypt.   Hamdi, Emad. Deraya University President, Minia, Egypt.
Hamdi, Emad. Psychiatry Department, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo,
Egypt.
Hamdy, Nermin Aly. Neurology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University,
Minia, Egypt.
Sarhan, Hatem A. Pharmaceutics Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia
University, Minia, Egypt.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
50.
  
Prediction of Amyloid Positivity in Mild Cognitive Impairment Using Fully Automated
Brain Segmentation Software.
Kang KM, Sohn CH, Byun MS, Lee JH, Yi D, Lee Y, Lee JY, Kim YK, Sohn BK, Yoo
RE, Yun TJ, Choi SH, Kim JH, Lee DY, KBASE Research Group
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1745-1754, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32801709
OBJECTIVE: To assess the predictive ability of regional volume information provided
by fully automated brain segmentation software for cerebral amyloid positivity in mild
cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: This study included 130 subjects with amnestic MCI who participated in
the Korean brain aging study of early diagnosis and prediction of Alzheimer's
disease, an ongoing prospective cohort. All participants underwent comprehensive
clinical assessment as well as 11C-labeled Pittsburgh compound PET/MRI scans.
The predictive ability of volumetric results provided by automated brain segmentation
software was evaluated using binary logistic regression and receiver operating
characteristic curve analysis.
RESULTS: Subjects were divided into two groups: one with Abeta deposition (58
subjects) and one without Abeta deposition (72 subjects). Among the varied
volumetric information provided, the hippocampal volume percentage of intracranial
volume (%HC/ICV), normative percentiles of hippocampal volume (HCnorm), and
gray matter volume were associated with amyloid-beta (Abeta) positivity (all P <
0.01). Multivariate analyses revealed that both %HC/ICV and HCnorm were
independent significant predictors of Abeta positivity (all P < 0.001). In addition,
prediction scores derived from %HC/ICV with age and HCnorm showed moderate
accuracy in predicting Abeta positivity in MCI subjects (the areas under the curve:
0.739 and 0.723, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Relative hippocampal volume measures provided by automated
brain segmentation software can be useful for screening cerebral Abeta positivity in
clinical practice for patients with amnestic MCI. The information may also help
clinicians interpret structural MRI to predict outcomes and determine early
intervention for delaying the progression to Alzheimer's disease dementia.
Copyright © 2020 Kang et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Kang, Koung Mi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9643-2008   Sohn, Chul-Ho;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0039-5746 
Byun, Min Soo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3159-4510 
Yi, Dahyun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0860-0946 
Lee, Jun-Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5893-3124 
Sohn, Bo Kyung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1444-1099 
Yoo, Roh-Eul; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5625-5921 
Yun, Tae Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8441-4574 
Kim, Ji-Hoon; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6349-6950 
Lee, Dong Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8976-8320 
Authors Full Name
Kang, Koung Mi, Sohn, Chul-Ho, Byun, Min Soo, Lee, Jun Ho, Yi, Dahyun, Lee,Younghwa, Lee, Jun-Young, Kim, Yu Kyeong, Sohn, Bo Kyung, Yoo, Roh-Eul, Yun,
Tae Jin, Choi, Seung Hong, Kim, Ji-Hoon, Lee, Dong Young, KBASE Research
Group
Institution
Kang, Koung Mi. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.   Sohn, Chul-Ho. Department of Radiology, Seoul National
University Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of
Korea.
Byun, Min Soo. Medical Research Center Seoul National University, Institute of
Human Behavioral Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Jun Ho. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Yi, Dahyun. Medical Research Center Seoul National University, Institute of Human
Behavioral Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Younghwa. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Jun-Young. Department of Neuropsychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Yu Kyeong. Department of Nuclear Medicine, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Sohn, Bo Kyung. Department of Psychiatry, Sanggye Paik Hospital, Inje University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Yoo, Roh-Eul. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Yun, Tae Jin. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Choi, Seung Hong. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Ji-Hoon. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Lee, Dong Young. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
51.
  
Effects of Cyperus rotundus Extract on Spatial Memory Impairment and Neuronal
Differentiation in Rat Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Shakerin Z, Esfandiari E, Razavi S, Alaei H, Ghanadian M, Dashti G
Advanced Biomedical Research. 9:17, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32775310
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common
neurodegenerative diseases in the older population and characterized by progressive
memory and cognitive impairment. Cyperus rotundus, a traditional medicinal herb,
has analgesic, sedative, and anti-inflammatory effects and also used to increase
memory in Islamic traditional medicine. This study was designed to consider theeffects of C. rotundus extract on memory impairment and neurogenesis in the Beta-
Amyloid rats' model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two male Wistar rats were randomly divided into
six groups (n = 7) for the evaluation of baseline training performance in the Morris
water maze test. Then, amyloid-beta (Abeta1-42) was injected in animal hippocampal
CA1 bilaterally in four groups. The first probe trial was performed 21 days after Abeta
injection. Then, 250, 500, and 750 mg/kg of C. rotundus extract were administered to
three Abeta-injected groups for 1 month; after that, the second probe trial was
performed, and rats were sacrificed after 28 days of the second probe trial. The
neurogenesis was detected in the hippocampus, by immunohistochemical staining.
RESULTS: This study showed that spatial memory increased in the behavioral test in
AD treated group with C. rotundus extract, compared with the AD group (P = 0.02).
Immunohistochemical staining revealed that neuronal differentiation has been
occurred in the hippocampus in the AD-treated group with C. rotundus extract
compared with the AD group (P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that C. rotundus extract, repaired spatial
memory impairment in the Abeta rats, through increased neurogenesis in the
hippocampus, which could be related to the flavonoid components in the extract.
Copyright: © 2020 Advanced Biomedical Research.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shakerin, Zeinab, Esfandiari, Ebrahim, Razavi, Shahnaz, Alaei, Hojjatallah,
Ghanadian, Mustafa, Dashti, Gholamreza
Institution
Shakerin, Zeinab. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.   Esfandiari, Ebrahim. Department of Anatomical Sciences,
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Razavi, Shahnaz. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Alaei, Hojjatallah. Department of Physiological Sciences, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Ghanadian, Mustafa. Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Dashti, Gholamreza. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
52.
  
Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy Tube Removal for Patients With Advanced
Dementia: Case Series Study.
Hattori Y, Kojima T, Komura H, Ura N, Akishita M
Annals of Geriatric Medicine & Research. 23(1):27-30, 2019 Mar.
[Journal Article]UI: 32743282
BACKGROUND: Although the notion of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
(PEG) tube placement for patients with dementia has been changing, the number of
cases of PEG placement remains high as Japan has become a super-aged society.
However, there is insufficient research about the clinical course of dementia patients
with PEG, especially regarding PEG extubation after regaining full oral intake. This
case series aimed to reveal the demographic data of patients who successfully
underwent PEG extubation and to identify clinical factors that might help predict
eventual resumption.
METHODS: This retrospective case series was identified in a private, community-
based long-term care hospital in Sapporo, Japan. Inclusion criteria for the series
were: 1) age, >=75 years, 2) diagnosis of any type of dementia, and 3) resumption of
full oral intake after removal of PEG tubes.
RESULTS: Eight female patients were identified. Decreased oral intake was
triggered by acute medical conditions, such as infectious enteritis. A trial of oral
intake was initiated mostly by speech therapists. A majority of the patients ate pureed
food. The patients aged >=85 years with advanced dementia could be weaned from
PEG tubes.
CONCLUSION: The series indicates that even patients with limited life expectancy
could recover swallowing function by receiving appropriate guidance and care.
Constant evaluation for swallowing function even after PEG insertion may be
important for PEG extubation.
Copyright © 2019 by The Korean Geriatric Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Kojima, Taro; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3857-5267 
Authors Full Name
Hattori, Yukari, Kojima, Taro, Komura, Hiroaki, Ura, Nobuyuki, Akishita, Masahiro
Institution
Hattori, Yukari. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.   Kojima, Taro. Department of Geriatric Medicine,
Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
Komura, Hiroaki. Sapporo Nishimaruyama Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
Ura, Nobuyuki. Sapporo Nishimaruyama Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
Akishita, Masahiro. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine,
The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
53.
  
Effect of Donepezil on Cognitive Impairment, Quality of Life, and Depression in
Multiple Sclerosis Patients: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
Shahpouri MM, Barekatain M, Tavakoli M, Badihian S, Shaygannejad V
International Journal of Preventive Medicine. 11:69, 2020.[Journal Article]
UI: 32742613
BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is one of the debilitating consequences of
multiple sclerosis (MS) with negative effects on daily life, individual and social
activities, quality of life (QOL), and depression. No approved medication is introduced
so far for affected individuals. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of donepezil on
cognitive performance, QOL, and depression in MS.
METHODS: This is a double-blinded randomized clinical trial conducted on 100
patients with MS during 2018. Patients were assessed prior to intervention
abbreviated mental test (AMT), prospective and retrospective mental questionnaire
(PRMQ), everyday memory questionnaire (EMQ), digit span test, Beck depression
inventory (BDI), and MSQOL questionnaire. Then patients were randomly divided
into two groups of treatment (daily regimen of 10 mg donepezil) and placebo for 3
months. Subjects were reassessed using the same instruments at the end of
intervention.
RESULTS: Fifty patients remained in each group at the end of study. The mean age
in donepezil and placebo groups was 31.9 +/- 5.89 and 30.65 +/- 5.43 years,
respectively. EMQ, PRMQ, digit span test, MSQOL, and depression scores improved
following donepezil therapy (P < 0.001) while no statistically significant difference
was found in the placebo group (P > 0.05). Comparison of two groups also showed
more favorable scores in donepezil group with respect to all assessment tools (P <
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Donepezil could effectively improve cognitive impairment in MS
patients. Also, its positive effect on QOL and depression could result in a smaller
number of interventions in this group of patients.
Copyright: © 2020 International Journal of Preventive Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shahpouri, Mohammad Mahdi, Barekatain, Majid, Tavakoli, Mahgol, Badihian,
Shervin, Shaygannejad, Vahid
Institution
Shahpouri, Mohammad Mahdi. Isfahan Neurosciences Research Center, Alzahra
Research Institute, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Barekatain, Majid. Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Tavakoli, Mahgol. Department of Psychology, School of Educational Sciences and
Psychology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
Badihian, Shervin. Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
Shaygannejad, Vahid. Isfahan Neurosciences Research Center, Alzahra Research
Institute, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
54.  
Phytotherapy for Cachexia: Where Do We Stand?. [Review]
Kuchta K, Cameron S
Frontiers in Pharmacology. 11:917, 2020.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32733236
BACKGROUND: In contrast to Western medicine which currently offers no approved
pharmacotherapy options for cachexia, in Japan multi-component extracts of
medicinal plants are used with coverage by the national health insurance. This so
called "Kampo" medicine is an example of the modern concept of multi-
component/multi-target therapy. For the three traditional preparations Hochuekkito (),
Juzentaihoto (), and Rikkunshito (), a multitude of clinical research data relating to
cachexia has been published. These preparations are also referred to as "Hozai" ().
A similar concept is found in Russian herbal medicine, where the term "Adaptogen"
was coined for pharmacologically active substances which enhance adaptive stress
repose.
METHODS: Scientific literature-including original Japanese articles-was reviewed
regarding the effects of these herbal preparations on cachexia. Cachexia is a
complex set of symptoms including muscle atrophy with loss of weight, fatigue, and
weakness.
RESULTS: In a 1985 study by Kuroda et al., Hochuekkito showed efficacy in
involuntary weight loss and fatigue in 63% of 162 patients with genitourinary cancer.
For cancer-related fatigue, a significant improvement was reported within 2 weeks by
Jeong et al. in 2010. In patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, Hochuekkito showed
an overall improvement with 8-12 weeks of therapy in a 1997 study by Kuratsune et
al. In a 2005 randomized placebo-controlled trial by Satoh et al. on 13 geriatric Q1
patients in a 16-week treatment protocol, Hochuekkito showed significant
improvement of general health, physical functioning and the Profile of Mood States
(POMS). In 71 geriatric COPD patients in a 2009 placebo-controlled randomized
study, Tatsumi et al. found a significant body weight increase and a CRP, TNF-alpha,
IL-6 decrease over 6 months of therapy. For Juzentaihoto in 48 hepatocellular
carcinoma patients, Tsuchiya et al. 2008 documented a significantly longer
recurrence-free survival (49 vs. 24 months) as compared to the control group
(p=0.023). For the much simpler Rikkunshito prescription, a 2011 retrospective study
by Fujitsuka et al. on 39 Stage III/IV pancreatic cancer patients treated with
Gemcitabine (n=33) or Gemcitabine/Rikkunshito (n=6) showed a significantly
prolonged median survival with 224 vs. 378.5 days (p < 0.05). In a 2011 open-label
clinical study by Utumi et al. on geriatric cachexia in 6 dementia patients, treatment
with Rikkunshito for 4 weeks resulted in a significant body weight increase. In all the
above studies, the standardized dosage of 3x2.5 g/d extract granules for most
Japanese health insurance-covered Kampo extract-preparations was applied.
CONCLUSION: As there is currently no accepted pharmacotherapy option for
cachexia available in the West, a transfer of these East Asian gold standard
prescriptions into the European market would be desirable. We were further able to
demonstrate that the mTOR, interleucin, and melatonin pathways are modified by
herbal compounds which thus counteract cachexia. More research in this field is
urgently needed in order to provide new, effective treatments for cachexia patients.
Copyright © 2020 Kuchta and Cameron.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Kuchta, Kenny, Cameron, Silke
Institution
Kuchta, Kenny. Clinic for Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Oncology, University
of Gottingen Medical School, Gottingen, Germany.   Cameron, Silke. Clinic for
Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Oncology, University of Gottingen MedicalSchool, Gottingen, Germany.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
55.
  
Antiretroviral therapy improves neurocognitive impairment in people living with HIV?
A meta-analysis. [Review]
Gao C, Meng J, Xiao X, Wang M, Williams AB, Wang H
International Journal of Nursing Sciences. 7(2):238-247, 2020 Apr 10.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32685622
OBJECTIVES: Although effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) has been used for
more than two decades, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder remains prevalent.
Thus, whether ART can improve neurocognitive impairment is controversial. This
review aims to explore the effects of ART on cognitive impairment in people living
with HIV (PLWH).
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted in eight databases
(PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, CNKI, VIP, China Biology
Medicine disc, and WanFang) to identify studies that compare cognitive function
between study groups who are administered and not administered ART. We
searched for articles published up to April 2019. Article evaluation and data
extraction were independently conducted by two reviewers.
RESULTS: Sixteen articles (6,694 participants)-14 cross-sectional studies and 2
cohort studies-were included in this meta-analysis. The cross-sectional studies
demonstrated that ART group did not perform better than the non-ART group (OR =
1.16; 95% CI, 1.03-1.30). However, the cohort studies reported a significant
improvement in cognitive function at three months (OR = 4.01; 95% CI, 2.35-6.85)
and six months (OR = 9.24; 95% CI, 1.71-49.96) after ART initiation compared with
the baseline data. No significant cognitive improvement was found in participants
younger than 55 years old, but the two cross-sectional studies showed that ART may
improve cognitive function in PLWH under 65 years old with poor physical condition
and immune status.
CONCLUSIONS: ART could improve cognitive function in PLWH with poor physical
condition and immune status, but it does not considerably improve cognition in the
entire PLWH population.
Copyright © 2020 Chinese Nursing Association. Production and hosting by Elsevier
B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Gao, Chang, Meng, Jingjing, Xiao, Xueling, Wang, Min, Williams, Ann Barterley,
Wang, Honghong
Institution
Gao, Chang. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.
Meng, Jingjing. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.Xiao, Xueling. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.
Wang, Min. The Institute of HIV/AIDS, The First Hospital in Changsha, Hunan, China.
Williams, Ann Barterley. Rory Meyers College of Nursing, New York University, New
York, USA.
Wang, Honghong. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
56.
  
Association of retinal nerve fiber abnormalities with serum CNTF and cognitive
functions in schizophrenia patients.
Liu Y, Huang L, Tong Y, Chen J, Gao D, Yang F
PeerJ. 8:e9279, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32676219
BACKGROUND: Recent studies have reported reductions in retinal nerve fiber layers
(RNFL) in schizophrenia. Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has shown protective
effects on both the neurogenesis and retina. This study aimed at investigating retinal
abnormalities and establishing their correlation with serum CNTF and cognitive
impairments in schizophrenic Chinese patients.
METHODS: In total, 221 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia and 149 healthy
controls were enrolled. Serum CNTF and clinical features of patients were
investigated. Cognitive functions were evaluated with Repeatable Battery for the
Assessment of Neuropsychology Status (RBANS). RNFL thickness and macular
thickness (MT) of both eyes were measured with optical coherence tomography
(OCT). T-tests and analysis of covariance were used to compare the variables
between the patient and control groups, while multiple linear regression analysis was
performed to determine the associations of RNFL thickness, CNTF and cognitive
impairments.
RESULTS: RNFL was found thinner in patients than in healthy controls (right: 88.18
+/- 25.84 microm vs.102.13 +/- 14.32 microm, p = 0.001; left: 92.84 +/- 13.54 microm
vs.103.71 +/- 11.94 microm, p < 0.001). CNTF was lower in the schizophrenia group
(1755.45 +/- 375.73 pg/ml vs. 1909.99 +/- 368.08 pg/ml, p = 0.001). Decline in RNFL
thickness was found correlated with course of illness and serum CNTF in patients (all
p < 0.05). Similarly, cognitive functions such as immediate memory and visuospatial
functions were also found correlated with decline in RNFL thickness.
CONCLUSION: Decline in RNFL thickness was associated with cognitive
impairments of schizophrenia and CNFT serum concentration. The possibility of
reduction in RNFL thickness as a biomarker for schizophrenia needs to be further
examined.
Copyright ©2020 Liu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full NameLiu, Yanhong, Huang, Lvzhen, Tong, Yongsheng, Chen, Jingxu, Gao, Dongfang,
Yang, Fude
Institution
Liu, Yanhong. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.   Huang, Lvzhen. People's
Hospital of Peking University, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Tong, Yongsheng. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Chen, Jingxu. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Gao, Dongfang. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Yang, Fude. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
57.
  
The Impact of Educational Intervention on the Anxiety of Family Caregivers of the
Elderly with Dementia: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Zarepour A, Hazrati M, Kadivar AA
International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery. 8(3):234-242, 2020
Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32656275
BACKGROUND: Due to the increasing population of elderly and the consequent
increase in the number of chronic diseases such as dementia, the psychological
complications such as anxiety in the family caregivers increase. The aim of this study
was to determine the effect of educational intervention on the anxiety of family
caregivers of the elderly people with dementia.
METHODS: This randomized controlled trial was performed in the elderly Neurology
Clinics in Shiraz from May to August 2017. This study was conducted on 70 families
with elderly people with dementia who were randomly divided into an intervention
(receiving in groups for seven sessions of educational intervention) and a control
group (Conventional care). Data collection tool was Spielberger's Anxiety Inventory
(40-items, score=20-80). Data were analyzed by SPSS version 21 using ANOVA test
with repeated measures and independent t-test.
RESULTS: One and three months after the interventions, the mean scores of anxiety
in the intervention group were 70.51+/-3.78 and 70.31+/-3.43 and in the control
groups they were 76.45+/-3.45 and 76.22+/-5.08 respectively. The results showed
significant differences between the two groups regarding anxiety after the
intervention (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Educational programs held to promote and maintain the physical and
mental health of caregivers could reduce the anxiety of family caregivers of the
elderly with dementia. Trial Registration Number: IRCT2017080915426N4.
Copyright: © International Journal of Community Based Nursing and Midwifery.
Version ID1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarepour, Abdolrahman, Hazrati, Maryam, Kadivar, Ali Akbaar
Institution
Zarepour, Abdolrahman. Student Research Committee,Shiraz University of Medical
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Hazrati, Maryam. Department of Nursing, School of Nursing
and Midwifery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Kadivar, Ali Akbaar. Department of Neurology, school of Medicine, Shiraz University
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
58.
  
Pharmacological treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms of dementia: a network
meta-analysis protocol.
Huang YY, Dou KX, Zhong XL, Shen XN, Chen SD, Li HQ, Chen KL, Cui M, Dong Q,
Tan L, Yu JT
Annals of Translational Medicine. 8(12):746, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32647671
BACKGROUND: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) of dementia are a common
issue in dementia patients which can lead to poor medical and functional outcomes.
Pharmacological interventions are its treatment of choice. However, whether to use
pharmacological treatments in this population and which drug should be preferred
remain controversial. We therefore aimed to compare and rank pharmacological
interventions for NPS according to their efficacy and acceptability profiles by
quantifying information from randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
METHODS: We will include all RCTs reported as double-blind and comparing one
active drug with another or with placebo that compare cholinesterase inhibitors
(ChEIs), N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor modulators, antipsychotics,
antidepressants, and mood stabilisers. Studies will be retrieved by searching
electronic databases, including Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials,
PubMed, MEDLINE, Clinicaltrial.govs, EMBASE, and with no date or language
restrictions. The primary outcomes were efficacy (change in overall symptoms) and
acceptability (all-cause discontinuation). The network meta-analysis (NMA) will be
conducted in R software within a Bayesian framework. The quality of evidence will be
evaluated using the Cochrane risk of bias tool, and the GRADE approach. We will
conduct subgroup analyses to assess the robustness of our findings.
RESULTS: The results of this study will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review will synthesize the available evidence on
the comparative efficacy of different pharmacological approaches in the management
of overall NPS, agitation, psychosis, apathy and depressive symptoms in dementia
patients. The results of the present NMA will influence evidence-based treatment
decisions for clinicians.
Copyright 2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Huang, Yu-Yuan, Dou, Kai-Xin, Zhong, Xiao-Ling, Shen, Xue-Ning, Chen, Shi-Dong,
Li, Hong-Qi, Chen, Ke-Liang, Cui, Mei, Dong, Qiang, Tan, Lan, Yu, Jin-Tai
Institution
Huang, Yu-Yuan. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.   Dou, Kai-
Xin. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University,
Qingdao, China.
Zhong, Xiao-Ling. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Central Hospital, Qingdao
University, Qingdao, China.
Shen, Xue-Ning. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Shi-Dong. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Li, Hong-Qi. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Ke-Liang. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Cui, Mei. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Dong, Qiang. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Tan, Lan. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University,
Qingdao, China.
Yu, Jin-Tai. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
59.
  
New Users of Herbal Medicine Containing Aristolochic Acids and the Risk of
Dementia in the Elderly: A Nationwide, Population-Based Study in Taiwan.
Chiou YE, Chien WC, Chung CH, Chang HA, Kao YC, Tsay PK, Tzeng NS
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1493-1504, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32606702
BACKGROUND: Herbal medicine containing aristolochic acids (HMCAA) was used
for inflammatory and infectious diseases. This study aimed to investigate the
association between the usage of HMCAA and the risk of dementia.
METHODS: A total of 199 new users of HMCAA were enrolled, along with 597
controls without the usage of HMCAA, at a ratio of 1:3 - matched by age, sex, and
comorbidity, between 2000 and 2003 - from the National Health Research Institutes
Database (NHRID) of Taiwan, which contains two million randomly sampled subjects,in this cohort study. We used Fine and Gray's survival analysis (competing with
mortality) to compare the risk of developing dementia during a 15-year follow-up
period (2000-2015).
RESULTS: In general, HMCAA was not significantly associated with dementia
(adjusted subdistribution hazard ratio [SHR] = 0.861, 95% confidence interval [CI] =
0.484-1.532, p = 0.611) for the HMCAA-cohort, although differential risk was
observed among the groups at risk. The patients with usage of HMCAA aged  85
years were associated with a higher risk in dementia (adjusted SHR: 6.243, 95%
CI=1.258-21.084, p = 0.001), in comparison to those aged 50-54 years. Furthermore,
the patients with usage of HMCAA that had cerebrovascular accidents were
associated with an increased risk of dementia.
CONCLUSION: The usage of HMCAA was associated with the risk of developing
dementia in the patients aged  85 years.
Copyright © 2020 Chiou et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Chiou, Yueh-Er; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6832-2386   Chien, Wu-Chien;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3286-0780 
Chung, Chi-Hsiang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4576-9900 
Tsay, Pei-Kwei; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1749-1419 
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5881-7089 
Authors Full Name
Chiou, Yueh-Er, Chien, Wu-Chien, Chung, Chi-Hsiang, Chang, Hsin-An, Kao, Yu-
Chen, Tsay, Pei-Kwei, Tzeng, Nian-Sheng
Institution
Chiou, Yueh-Er. Department of Nursing, College of Medicine, Fu Jen Catholic
University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.   Chiou, Yueh-Er. Graduate Institute of Clinical
Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. Department of Medical Research, Tri-Service General Hospital,
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. School of Public Health, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei,
Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National Defense Medical
Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. Department of Medical Research, Tri-Service General Hospital,
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. School of Public Health, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. Taiwanese Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion Association,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Chang, Hsin-An. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School of
Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chang, Hsin-An. Student Counseling Center, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Kao, Yu-Chen. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School of
Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Kao, Yu-Chen. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, Song-Shan
Branch, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Tsay, Pei-Kwei. Department of Public Health and Center of Biostatistics, College of
Medicine, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan 333, Taiwan.
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School
of Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng. Student Counseling Center, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
60.
  
Validation of the Argentine version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test
(MOCA): A screening tool for Mild Cognitive Impairment and Mild Dementia in
Elderly.
Serrano CM, Sorbara M, Minond A, Finlay JB, Arizaga RL, Iturry M, Martinez P,
Heinemann G, Gagliardi C, Serra A, Magliano FC, Yacovino D, Rojas MMEY, Ruiz
AS, Graviotto HG
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):145-152, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595883
The MoCA is a brief useful test to diagnose mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild
dementia (MD). To date, no Argentine cross-cultural adapted validations of the
Spanish version have been reported.
OBJECTIVE: To validate the MoCA in the elderly and study its usefulness in MCI and
MD.
METHODS: This study included 399 individuals over 60 years old evaluated in the
Cognitive-Behavioral Department (2017-2018). Patients with<3 years of education,
sensory disturbances, psychiatric disorders, or moderate-severe dementia were
excluded. The control group comprised cognitively normal subjects. Participants were
classified according to neuropsychological assessment and clinical standard criteria
into Control, MCI or MD groups. A locally adapted MoCA (MOCA-A) was
administered to the patients and controls.
RESULTS: Mean educational level was 10.34 years (SD 3.5 years). MoCA-A score
differed significantly among groups (p<0.0001). MoCA-A performance correlated with
educational level (r: 0.406 p<0.00001). Adopting a cut-off score >=25 (YI=0.55), the
sensitivity for MCI was 84.8% and for MD 100%, with specificity of 69.7%. When
adding a single point to the score in patients with <=12 years of education, the
specificity of the test reached 81%.
CONCLUSION: The MoCA-A is an accurate reliable screening test for MCI and MD
in Argentina.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Serrano, Cecilia M; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3699-1611   Sorbara,
Marcos; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6668-1895 
Finlay, John B; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3038-1276 
Arizaga, Raul L; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6697-9803 
Iturry, Monica; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8899-5812 
Martinez, Patricia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9879-0378 
Heinemann, Gabriela; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8167-559X 
Gagliardi, Celina; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9672-6118 
Serra, Andrea; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7939-4190 
Magliano, Florencia Ces; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7932-1290 Yacovino, Dario; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5617-2264 
Rojas, Maria Martha Esnaola Y; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6329-5801 
Authors Full Name
Serrano, Cecilia M, Sorbara, Marcos, Minond, Alexander, Finlay, John B, Arizaga,
Raul L, Iturry, Monica, Martinez, Patricia, Heinemann, Gabriela, Gagliardi, Celina,
Serra, Andrea, Magliano, Florencia Ces, Yacovino, Dario, Rojas, Maria Martha
Esnaola Y, Ruiz, Adelaida Susana, Graviotto, Hector Gaston
Institution
Serrano, Cecilia M. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.   Serrano, Cecilia M. Laboratorio de Memoria y
Equilibrio, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Sorbara, Marcos. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Minond, Alexander. Carrera Interdisciplinaria de Especializacion en Neuropsicologia
Clinica, Facultad de Psicologia, UBA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Finlay, John B. Duke University School of Medicine, North Carolina, USA.
Arizaga, Raul L. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar Milstein,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Iturry, Monica. Carrera de Investigador Clinico del Gobierno de la Ciudad de Buenos
Aires, Argentina.
Martinez, Patricia. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Heinemann, Gabriela. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Gagliardi, Celina. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Serra, Andrea. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar Milstein,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Magliano, Florencia Ces. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Yacovino, Dario. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Yacovino, Dario. Laboratorio de Memoria y Equilibrio, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Rojas, Maria Martha Esnaola Y. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr.
Cesar Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Ruiz, Adelaida Susana. Carrera Interdisciplinaria de Especializacion en
Neuropsicologia Clinica, Facultad de Psicologia, UBA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Graviotto, Hector Gaston. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr.
Cesar Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O MoCA e um teste breve e util para diagnosticar comprometimento cognitivo leve
(CCL) e demencia leve. Ate o momento, nenhuma validacao argentina com
adaptacao transcultural da versao em espanhol havia sido relatada.OBJETIVO:
Validar o MoCA em idosos e estudar sua utilidade no CCL e demencia
leve.METODOS: Este estudo incluiu 399 individuos acima de 60 anos avaliados no
departamento cognitivo-comportamental (2017-2018). Foram excluidos pacientes
com menos de 3 anos de escolaridade, com disturbios sensoriais, disturbios
psiquiatricos e demencia moderada a grave. O grupo controle foi cognitivamente
normal. Eles foram classificados de acordo com a avaliacao neuropsicologica e os
criterios clinicos padrao em Controles, MCI e demencia leve. A versao adaptada do
MoCA (MOCA-A) foi administrado aos pacientes e controles.RESULTADOS: Media
de escolaridade: 10,34 anos (DP: 3,5). O escore MoCA-A foi significativamente
diferente entre os grupos (p<0,0001). O MoCA-A correlacionou-se com a
escolaridade (r=0,406 p<0,00001). Com uma pontuacao de corte >=25 (IY=0,55), a
sensibilidade para CCL foi de 84,8% e para demencia leve 100%, com
especificidade de 69,7%. Adicionando um ponto unico a pontuacao em pacientes
com menos de 12 anos de escolaridade, a especificidade do teste atingiu81%.CONCLUSAO: O MoCA-A e um teste de rastreamento preciso e confiavel para
MCI e demencia leve na Argentina.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
61.
  
Cognitive stimulation program in mild cognitive impairment A randomized controlled
trial.
Gomez-Soria I, Peralta-Marrupe P, Plo F
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):110-117, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595879
Non-pharmacological cognitive interventions in mild cognitive impairment have
demonstrated promising results in preventing or delaying cognitive impairment and
functional disability. Cognitive stimulation seems to improve and maintain cognitive
and social activity.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the impact of a cognitive stimulation
program in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at the cognitive level on activities of daily
living (ADLs), and levels of anxiety and depression.
METHODS: A randomized controlled single-blind trial involving 122 non-
institutionalized elderly with a MEC-35 score of 24-27 was conducted. The
intervention group (n=54) received the intervention (10-week cognitive stimulation
program) and was compared with a control group (n=68) that received no
intervention. Follow-up assessments were conducted post-test and at 6 months post-
test. The primary outcome was cognitive function determined by changes in scores
on the Spanish version (MEC-35) of the Mini-Mental State Examination, while the
secondary outcomes were measured by the Barthel Index, Lawton and Brody Scale,
Goldberg Questionnaire (anxiety sub-scale) and the Yesavage Geriatric Depression
Scale (15-item version).
RESULTS: The intervention group showed a significant improvement in cognitive
function at both timepoints, post-test and 6-month follow-up. The Barthel Index was
higher in the intervention group, but only on the post-test analysis. The intervention
did not improve the performance of instrumental ADLs or depression or anxiety
levels.
CONCLUSION: The findings showed cognitive improvements in an elderly population
with MCI in the short and medium-term and improved basic ADLs in the short term.
Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT03831061.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7210-5704 
Authors Full Name
Gomez-Soria, Isabel, Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia, Plo, Fernando
InstitutionGomez-Soria, Isabel. University of Zaragoza Ringgold standard institution Zaragoza,
Aragon, Spain.   Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia. Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital
Ringgold standard institution Barrack Road, Exeter EX2 5DW United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Plo, Fernando. University of Zaragoza Ringgold standard institution Zaragoza,
Aragon, Spain.
Other Abstract
Publisher
As intervencoes cognitivas nao farmacologicas no comprometimento cognitivo leve
demonstram resultados promissores na prevencao ou retardo no comprometimento
cognitivo e na incapacidade funcional. A estimulacao cognitiva parece melhorar e
manter a atividade cognitiva e social.OBJETIVO: Nosso objetivo foi o de avaliar um
programa de estimulacao cognitiva sobre o comprometimento cognitivo leve no nivel
cognitivo, nas atividades da vida diaria, niveis de ansiedade e
depressao.METODOS: Um estudo randomizado, controlado e cego, foi
implementado em 122 idosos nao institucionalizados com escore 24-27 na versao
em espanhol do Mini Exame do Estado Mental (MEC-35). O grupo de intervencao
(n=54) recebeu a intervencao (programa de estimulacao cognitiva de 10 semanas) e
foi comparado com um grupo de controle (n=68) que nao recebeu nenhuma
intervencao. Avaliacoes de acompanhamento foram realizadas pos-teste e 6 meses
pos-teste. O desfecho primario foi a funcao cognitiva determinada pelas alteracoes
nos escores do MEC-35 e os desfechos secundarios foram medidos pelo Indice de
Barthel, Escala de Lawton e Brody, Escala de Lawton e Brody, Questionario
Goldberg (subescala de ansiedade) ) e a Escala de Depressao Geriatrica de
Yesavage (versao de 15 itens).RESULTADOS: O grupo intervencao apresentou uma
melhora significativa na funcao cognitiva nas duas medidas de tempo, pos-teste e 6
meses de acompanhamento. O Indice de Barthel foi encontrado mais alto no grupo
de intervencao, mas apenas na analise pos-teste. A intervencao nao melhorou o
desempenho de atividades instrumentais da vida diaria e niveis de depressao ou
ansiedade.CONCLUSAO: Os achados mostram melhorias cognitivas no
comprometimento cognitivo leve da populacao idosa em curto e medio prazo e
melhoraram as atividades basicas da vida diaria em curto prazo. Identificador do
Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT03831061.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
62.
  
Action observation combined with gait training to improve gait and cognition in elderly
with mild cognitive impairment A randomized controlled trial.
Rojasavastera R, Bovonsunthonchai S, Hiengkaew V, Senanarong V
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):118-127, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595880
Owing to advancement of medical technology and current knowledge, the population
has a longer life expectancy, leading to an increase in the proportion of elderly.
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to investigate the effect of action observation (AO)combined with gait training on gait and cognition in elderly with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI).
METHODS: Thirty-three participants were randomly allocated to action observation
with gait training (AOGT), gait training (GT), and control (CT) groups. The AOGT and
GT groups received a program of observation and gait training protocol with the
same total duration of 65 min for 12 sessions. For the observation, the AGOT group
watched a video of normal gait movement, while the GT group watched an abstract
picture and the CT group received no training program. All participants were
assessed for gait parameters during single- and dual-tasks using an electronic gait
mat system and were assessed for cognitive level using the Montreal Cognitive
Assessment (MoCA) at baseline, after training and at 1-month follow-up.
RESULTS: The results showed that the AOGT group had significant improvements in
gait speeds during single- and dual-tasks, as well as better MoCA score, while the
GT group had significant improvement only in gait speed.
CONCLUSION: The adjunct treatment of AO with gait training provides greater
benefits for both gait and cognitive performances in elderly with MCI.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1044-3174
Hiengkaew, Vimonwan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0842-6976 
Senanarong, Vorapun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2774-4187 
Authors Full Name
Rojasavastera, Rommanee, Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee, Hiengkaew, Vimonwan,
Senanarong, Vorapun
Institution
Rojasavastera, Rommanee. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.   Rojasavastera, Rommanee. Gait and Balance Group, Faculty of
Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee. Gait and Balance Group, Faculty of Physical Therapy,
Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
Hiengkaew, Vimonwan. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.
Senanarong, Vorapun. Division of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital,
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Com o avanco da tecnologia medica e do conhecimento atual, a populacao tem uma
expectativa de vida mais longa, levando a um aumento na proporcao de
idosos.OBJETIVO: O estudo teve como objetivo investigar o efeito da observacao de
acao (AO) combinada com o treinamento da marcha na marcha e cognicao em
idosos com comprometimento cognitivo leve (CCL).METODOS: Trinta e tres
participantes foram alocados aleatoriamente para observacao de acao com grupos
de treinamento de marcha (AOGT), treinamento de marcha (GT) e controle (CT). Os
grupos AOGT e GT receberam um programa de observacao e protocolo de
treinamento de marcha com a mesma duracao total de 65 minutos por 12 sessoes.
Na observacao, o grupo AGOT assistiu a um video de movimento normal da marcha,
enquanto o grupo GT assistiu a uma figura abstrata e o grupo CT nao recebeu
nenhum programa de treinamento. Todos os participantes foram avaliados quanto
aos parametros da marcha durante tarefas simples e duplas, utilizando um sistema
eletronico de esteira da marcha e avaliados quanto ao nivel cognitivo, utilizando a
Avaliacao Cognitiva de Montreal (MoCA) na linha de base, apos o treinamento e 1
mes de acompanhamento.RESULTADOS: Os resultados mostraram que o grupo
AOGT apresentou melhorias significativas nas velocidades da marcha durantetarefas simples e duplas, alem do escore MoCA, enquanto o grupo GT teve melhora
significativa apenas na velocidade da marcha.CONCLUSAO: O tratamento adjunto
da AO com o treinamento da marcha proporciona maiores beneficios tanto do
desempenho da marcha quanto do desempenho cognitivo em idosos com CCL.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
63.
  
Investigation of Aneusomy of Chromosome 21 in the Micronuclei of 13 Patients with
Early Onset Alzheimer's Disease Using Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization: A Pilot
Study.
Biglari S, Kamali K, Banihashemi S, Faal Sezavari A, Aghajanpour-Mir SM, Behjati F
Reports of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology. 8(4):446-453, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32582804
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative
and dementia disorders in people between the ages of 30 and 65. When symptoms
appear in this age group, the disease is referred to as early-onset Alzheimer's
disease (EOAD). Unfortunately, the symptoms are progressive and no current
treatments are effective.
METHODS: In this research, 13 patients, aged 37 to 65 years with symptoms of
early-onset Alzheimer's disease, were studied. First, patient lymphocytes were
isolated and cultured in RPMI 1640 medium using a special micronucleus (MN)
culture method. Next, the lymphocytes were harvested and prepared on slides. The
slides were then examined by fluorescent microscopy using a unique FISH protocol
specific for MNs. The patients were divided into groups aged 30-39, 40-49, and 50-
65.
RESULTS: We found that 19.76% of the MNs from our EOAD patients originated in
chromosome 21. Micronuclei originated in chromosome 21 in 21.20 and 16.52% of
patients without and with family histories of Alzheimer's, respectively. This difference
was not significant. Also, the percentage of micronuclei originating in chromosome 21
was not dependent on the patient age at the time of the study, or symptom onset age
or duration.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that the rate of micronuclei with the origin of
chromosome 21 is high in these patients. However, the micronucleus increased has
no significant relationship with age and duration of disease or family history of it.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Biglari, Sajjad, Kamali, Koorosh, Banihashemi, Sousan, Faal Sezavari, Arash,
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen, Behjati, Farkhondeh
Institution
Biglari, Sajjad. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Kamali, Koorosh. Department of PublicHealth, School of Public Health, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences.
Banihashemi, Sousan. Department of Public Health, School of Public Health, Zanjan
University of Medical Sciences.
Faal Sezavari, Arash. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen. Genetics Research Center, University of Social
Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen. Cellular & Molecular Biology Research Center,
Health Institute, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
Behjati, Farkhondeh. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
64.
  
Sleep Quality and its various correlates: A community-based study among geriatric
population in a community development block of Purba Bardhaman district, West
Bengal.
Das S, Roy RN, Das DK, Chakraborty A, Mondal R
Journal of Family Medicine & Primary Care. 9(3):1510-1516, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32509641
BACKGROUND: In the elderly population, sleep problems are prevalent and have
known to be associated with many factors. There are many adverse consequences
of decreased sleep such as heart disease, diabetes, depression, accidents, impaired
cognition, and poor quality of life. Correlates of poor sleep quality have not been well
explored in Indian research.
OBJECTIVES: The present study aimed to measure prevalence of poor sleep quality
among elderly and its association with different factors.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted during June-November 2018 in a
randomly selected block of Purba Bardhaman district. Cluster random sampling was
applied to select required sample of 180 elderly people (>=60 years) from 30 villages.
Study tools used were Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), 5-Item Geriatric
Depression Scale (GDS), Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7), Global
Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ), and a pretested schedule for
sociodemographic and other variables. The study had approval from Institutional
Ethics Committee. Chi-square tests and multivariable logistic regression were
performed using SPSS V16.
RESULTS: Prevalence of poor sleep quality (GPSQI >=5) was 68.89%. Median
Global PSQI (GPSQI) score was 7.00 (4.00-11.00). Multivariable logistic regression
revealed that marital status, vital events in past one month, anxiety status, and
depression were significantly associated with sleep quality. Those who were
unmarried/widowed, having vital events in past one month in the family, and severe
anxiety and depression were having significantly higher odds of developing poor
sleep quality.
CONCLUSION: Poor sleep quality is high among elderly and measures toward the
significant correlates are thus emphasized.Copyright: © 2020 Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Das, Soumyaneel, Roy, Rabindra Nath, Das, Dilip Kumar, Chakraborty, Amitava,
Mondal, Raston
Institution
Das, Soumyaneel. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.   Roy, Rabindra Nath.
Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College, Burdwan, Purba
Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Das, Dilip Kumar. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Chakraborty, Amitava. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical
College, Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Mondal, Raston. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
65.
  
Knowledge regarding Alzheimer's Disease among College Students of Kathmandu,
Nepal.
Baral K, Dahal M, Pradhan S
International journal of Alzheimer's disease. 2020:6173217, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32494366
INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's, a neurodegenerative disease, is becoming a growing
burden and the leading cause of disability among older people, and there is no cure
for it. It is set to be the biggest killer among the growing elderly population. The aim
of this study was to assess the knowledge of Alzheimer's disease among college
students in Kathmandu metropolitan city.
METHODS: This was a descriptive cross-sectional study among 385 randomly
selected bachelor students of Kathmandu metropolitan city. The questionnaire
included 2 sections. Section I addressed the sociodemographic characteristics of the
participants. Section II addressed or covered the Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge
Scale (ADKS) test. ADKS contains a set of 30 items, with true and false options. 1
point was given for the correct answer and 0 for the incorrect answer. The final sum
was then the total score of the participant. Frequency, percentage, mean, and
standard deviation were calculated, and the chi-square test was used to measure the
association between two categorical variables.
RESULTS: The mean ADKS (Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale) score is 15.45
+/- 2.95 with the lowest and highest mean total scores of 8 and 26, respectively.
49.5% of the respondents scored above the mean. The number of male and female
respondents who scored above the mean is 68 and 95, respectively, with p value0.71 and odds ratio 0.922. There is no association between gender and knowledge
level. Gender seemed to have no effect on the knowledge about Alzheimer's disease
on the basis of the Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale (ADKS). However, science
students had comparatively better knowledge about disease than management
students. The mean score of science and management is 15.9 and 15.04,
respectively, with p value 0.004. There is association between knowledge score and
faculty.
CONCLUSION: This study concluded that the knowledge level of college students on
Alzheimer's disease is below moderate. The findings concluded that there is
association between faculty and knowledge score.
Copyright © 2020 Kushalata Baral et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Dahal, Maginsh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1873-7601 
Authors Full Name
Baral, Kushalata, Dahal, Maginsh, Pradhan, Shneha
Institution
Baral, Kushalata. Department of Public Health, Nobel College, Pokhara University,
Nepal.   Dahal, Maginsh. Department of Public Health, Asian College for Advance
Studies, Purbanchal University, Nepal.
Pradhan, Shneha. Department of Public Health, Nobel College, Pokhara University,
Nepal.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
66.
  
Protein Kinase Ce in the Platelet and Hippocampal Tissue as a Diagnostic Biological
Marker in Alzheimer Disease.
Amiri S, Azadmanesh K, Dehghan Shasaltaneh M, Khoshkholgh-Sima B, Naghdi N
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 10(6):545-556, 2019 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32477472
INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder
characterized by the progressive loss of memory and other cognitive functions.
Protein Kinase Ce (PKCe) is an isoform that most effectively suppresses Amyloid
Beta (Abeta) production and synaptic loss.
METHODS: In this study, spatial learning and memory for treated rats were
evaluated by the Morris water maze test. The activity (total PKC), mRNA expression,
and protein level of PKCe in the platelet and hippocampal tissue were evaluated
using immunosorbent assay, real-time qPCR, and western blotting analysis,
respectively.
RESULTS: The traveled distance was significantly prolonged, and escape latency
significantly increased in Abeta-treated groups. PKC activity assay showed that there
was a remarkable difference between the Abeta-treated and sham-operated groupson days 10 and 30 in the hippocampus and also day 30 in platelet after the injection
of Abeta. A significant effect in PKC activity was observed between days 0 and 10,
days 0 and 30, as well as days 5 and 30. Abeta significantly downregulated the
PKCe mRNA expression in the hippocampus of rats on day 30; however, no
significant difference was observed in platelet. Western blot analysis demonstrated
that Abeta significantly reduced PKCe protein expression in the hippocampus of
treated groups on day 30.
CONCLUSION: The expression level of PKCe was downregulated following the
injection of Abeta in the hippocampus, but no significant difference was observed
between the AD and sham groups in platelet that may be due to the low
concentration of PKCe or duration of Abeta exposure in the rat brain.
Copyright© 2019 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Amiri, Sara; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2851-1219   Azadmanesh, Kayhan;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7165-9043 
Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1425-7347 
Khoshkholgh-Sima, Baharak; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6262-0462 
Naghdi, Nasser; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3315-372X 
Authors Full Name
Amiri, Sara, Azadmanesh, Kayhan, Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh, Khoshkholgh-
Sima, Baharak, Naghdi, Nasser
Institution
Amiri, Sara. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur Institute of Iran,
Tehran, Iran.   Azadmanesh, Kayhan. Department of Virology, Pasteur Institute of
Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh. Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences,
University of Zanjan, Zanjan, Iran.
Khoshkholgh-Sima, Baharak. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Naghdi, Nasser. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur Institute of
Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
67.
  
Ceftriaxone improves senile neurocognition damages induced by D-galactose in
mice.
Hakimizadeh E, Kaeidi A, Taghipour Z, Mehrzadi S, Allahtavakoli M, Shamsizadeh A,
Bazmandegan G, Hassanshahi J, Aflatoonian MR, Fatemi I
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(3):368-375, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32440324
OBJECTIVES: Ceftriaxone (Cef), a beta-lactam antibiotic, is accompanied byantioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. It has been shown that Cef has
beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease. In the current investigation, the effect of
Cef in a mice model of aging was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty male mice were equally aliquoted into four
groups as follows: Control (as healthy normal animals), D-galactose (DG) group
(treated with 500 mg/kg/day DG for 6 weeks), DG + Cef group (treated with DG plus
Cef 200 mg/kg/day for 6 weeks), and Cef group (treated with Cef 200 mg/kg/day for 6
weeks). A battery of behavioral tests was done to evaluate age-related
neurocognitive changes. The activities of catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase
(GPx), and superoxide dismutase (SOD), as well as the level of malondialdehyde
(MDA) in the brain, were measured by biochemical methods. Also, to determine the
brain damage, histopathological alterations in the hippocampus were measured
using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that neurobehavioral dysfunctions of DG can be
prevented by co-administration of Cef. We also found that Cef increases the activity
of SOD, GPx, and CAT as well as decreasing the level of MDA in the brain of aged
mice.
CONCLUSION: Based on our findings, Cef declines neurocognitive dysfunctions in
the DG-induced model of aging, possibly through its antioxidative properties.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Hakimizadeh, Elham, Kaeidi, Ayat, Taghipour, Zahra, Mehrzadi, Saeed,
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad, Shamsizadeh, Ali, Bazmandegan, Gholamreza,
Hassanshahi, Jalal, Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza, Fatemi, Iman
Institution
Hakimizadeh, Elham. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.   Kaeidi, Ayat. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.
Kaeidi, Ayat. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Taghipour, Zahra. Department of Anatomy, Rafsanjan University of Medical
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Mehrzadi, Saeed. Razi Drug Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research
Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences,
Rafsanjan, Iran.
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of
Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Shamsizadeh, Ali. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute of
Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Shamsizadeh, Ali. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Bazmandegan, Gholamreza. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research
Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences,
Rafsanjan, Iran.
Bazmandegan, Gholamreza. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School
of Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Hassanshahi, Jalal. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.
Hassanshahi, Jalal. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of
Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza. Research Center for Tropical and Infectious
Diseases, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Fatemi, Iman. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute of
Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Fatemi, Iman. Research Center for Tropical and Infectious Diseases, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
68.
  
Tualang honey supplementation as cognitive enhancer in patients with
schizophrenia.
Yahaya R, Zahary MN, Othman Z, Ismail R, Nik Him NAS, Abd Aziz A, Dahlan R,
Jusoh AF
Heliyon. 6(5):e03948, 2020 May.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32426546
INTRODUCTION: Schizophrenia is a chronic mental illness with clusters of
symptoms, including cognitive impairment. This study aimed to explore the effect of
Tualang Honey (TH) on cognitive domains, especially as it pertained to the verbal
memory of schizophrenia patients.
METHOD: This was a cross-sectional study involved 80 individuals, diagnosed with
schizophrenia. The Malay Version Auditory Verbal Learning Test (MVAVLT) was
used. Data were analysed using SPSS 20.0 software. Intention to treat analysis was
applied.
RESULT: A comparison of the total learning score at eight weeks between the two
groups based on time effect and time-treatment interaction favoured TH group.
CONCLUSION: This study concludes that by supplementing schizophrenia patients
with 8-week of TH did improve total learning performance across domains in the
immediate memory among patients with schizophrenia.
Copyright © 2020 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yahaya, Rosliza, Zahary, Mohd Nizam, Othman, Zahiruddin, Ismail, Rusli, Nik Him,
Nik Ahmad Shaiffudin, Abd Aziz, Aniza, Dahlan, Rahima, Jusoh, Azizul Fadzli
Institution
Yahaya, Rosliza. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Zahary, Mohd Nizam. Faculty of Health Sciences, Gong Badak Campus, Universiti
Sultan Zainal Abidin, 21300 Kuala Nerus, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Othman, Zahiruddin. School of Medical Sciences, Health Campus, Universiti Sains
Malaysia, 16150 Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia.
Ismail, Rusli. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin,
Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.Nik Him, Nik Ahmad Shaiffudin. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti
Sultan Zainal Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu,
Malaysia.
Abd Aziz, Aniza. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Dahlan, Rahima. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
Jusoh, Azizul Fadzli. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
69.
  
Effect of donepezil and memantine on improvement of cognitive function in patients
with temporal lobe epilepsy.
Oustad M, Najafi M, Mehvari J, Rastgoo A, Mortazavi Z, Rahiminejad M
Journal of Research in Medical Sciences. 25:29, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32419786
BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is a common complication of patients with
temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare the
effects of donepezil and memantine on improving the cognitive function of patients
with TLE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a clinical trial study, 70 patients with TLE were
divided into two groups of 35 each: 10 mg doses of donepezil (first group) and
memantine (second group) were applied for 16 weeks. The level of cognitive function
of patients in both groups before and after treatment was determined using Montreal
Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test.
RESULTS: The mean score of MoCA before and after intervention was 23.55 +/-
3.67 and 26.09 +/- 2.5, respectively, in the group treated with memantine, and the
mean score of intervention was significantly improved (P < 0.001). In the group
treated with donepezil, the score before and after the operation was 23.87 +/- 3.18
and 24.35 +/- 2.17, respectively, and no significant difference was observed in this
group (P = 0.38).
CONCLUSION: Hence, memantine was better than donepezil in the improvement of
cognitive impairment in patients with TLE.
Copyright: © 2020 Journal of Research in Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Oustad, Marjan, Najafi, Mohamadreza, Mehvari, Jafar, Rastgoo, Amin, Mortazavi,
Zahrasadat, Rahiminejad, Mitra
Institution
Oustad, Marjan. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.   Najafi, Mohamadreza. Department of Neurology,Medical School, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Mehvari, Jafar. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Rastgoo, Amin. Neurosurgeon, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Kangan, Bushehr
University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.
Mortazavi, Zahrasadat. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Rahiminejad, Mitra. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
70.
  
Experience of Intensive Care Nurses in Assessment of Postoperative Pain in
Patients with Hip Fracture and Dementia.
Krupic F, Grbic K, Senorski EH, Lepara O, Fatahi N, Svantesson E
Materia Sociomedica. 32(1):50-56, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32410892
INTRODUCTION: Patients with hip fracture are one of the most demanding groups in
the health-care system. One of the most important tasks for nurses is to assess pain
and ensure the patients are pain free. Pain assessment in patients with dementia is a
well-known challenge for health-care professionals due to the patients' difficulties in
verbalising pain problems.
AIM: The aim of this study was to explore the experience of intensive care nurses in
assessment of pain in patients with hip fracture and dementia in the postoperative
setting.
METHODS: Data were collected through five focus group discussions using open-
ended questions and qualitative content analysis. Twenty-one intensive care nurses
(6 men and 15 women) participated in the focus group interviews.
RESULTS: Analysis of the data resulted in three main categories: "Communication",
"Visual assessment of pain", and "Practical issues" including a number of
subcategories. Some of the factors which influence assessment of pain in patients
with dementia are the lack of information and knowledge about the patients, which
causes loss of time and increased stress. The different forms of communication and
ways of assessing pain in these patients were other factors mentioned by nurses as
hindrances regarding assessment of the pain.
CONCLUSION: In order to improve assessment of pain, more knowledge and
information about the patients are needed and better coordination between the pre-
and postoperative departments regarding these patients. In this context, different
intervention studies on patient's hip fracture and dementia are needed to increase
knowledge and awareness regarding this group of patients.
Copyright © 2020 Ferid Krupic, Kemal Grbic, Eric Hamrin Senorski, Orhan Lepara,
Nabi Fatahi, Eleonor Svantesson.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Krupic, Ferid, Grbic, Kemal, Senorski, Eric Hamrin, Lepara, Orhan, Fatahi, Nabi,
Svantesson, Eleonor
Institution
Krupic, Ferid. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.   Krupic,
Ferid. Department of Anesthesiology. Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska
Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Grbic, Kemal. Clinical of Thoracic Surgery, University Clinical Center Sarajevo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Senorski, Eric Hamrin. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Lepara, Orhan. Department of Human Physiology, Shool of Medicine, University of
Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Fatahi, Nabi. Department of Learning and Ledarship for Health care Professionals,
Sahlgrenska Akademin at University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Svantesson, Eleonor. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
71.
  
Vitamin E therapy prevents the accumulation of congophilic amyloid plaques and
neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus in a rat model of Alzheimer's disease.
Jahanshahi M, Nikmahzar E, Sayyahi A
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(1):86-92, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32395206
OBJECTIVES: Vitamin E may have beneficial effects on oxidative stress and Abeta-
associated reactive oxygen species production in Alzheimer's disease. But, the exact
role of vitamin E as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis still needs to
be studied. Hence, we examined the therapeutic effects of vitamin E on the density of
congophilic amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in rats' hippocampi.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Wistar rats were randomly assigned to control (no
drug treatment), sham scopolamine (3 mg/kg)+saline and Sham
scopolamine+sesame oil groups, and three experimental groups that received
scopolamine+vitamin E (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day) daily for 14 days after
scopolamine injection. The rats' brains were collected immediately following
transcardial perfusion and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde. Pathological brain
alterations were monitored through Congo red and bielschowsky silver staining.
RESULTS: Scopolamine treatment led to a significant increase in the density of
congophilic amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus. IP
injection of vitamin E in three doses (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day) significantly
reversed the scopolamine-induced increase of the congophilic amyloid plaque
density and density of neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus. Although vitamin E
(25 and 50 mg/kg/day) doses were also effective, but a 100 mg/kg/day dose ofvitamin E was more effective in the reduction of congophilic amyloid plaque and
neurofibrillary tangle density.
CONCLUSION: Vitamin E could exert a therapeutic effect in the reduction of
congophilic amyloid plaque and neurofibrillary tangle density in the hippocampus of
scopolamine-treated rats and it is useful for Alzheimer's disease.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jahanshahi, Mehrdad, Nikmahzar, Emsehgol, Sayyahi, Ali
Institution
Jahanshahi, Mehrdad. Neuroscience Research Center, Department of Anatomy,
Faculty of Medicine, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Nikmahzar, Emsehgol. Neuroscience Research Center, Golestan University of
Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Sayyahi, Ali. Neuroscience Research Center, Golestan University of Medical
Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
72.
  
The Relationship between Polyneuropathy and Cognitive Functions in Type 2
Diabetes Mellitus Patients.
Timer SM, Timer E, Yukselen NP, Gokyigit MC
Sisli Etfal Hastanesi Tp Bulteni. 54(1):41-46, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32377132
OBJECTIVES: Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a risk factor for mild cognitive
impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. However, it is not
known which pathophysiological mechanisms lead to impairment in cognitive
functions in Type 2 DM. This study aims to compare the cognitive functions of
diabetic patients with and without polyneuropathy using standardized Mini-Mental
Test (MMSE) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale (MoCA) and to assess
whether the presence of polyneuropathy is a predictive factor for the development of
cognitive impairment.
METHODS: Patients with DM who underwent our EMG laboratory for polyneuropathy
between January 2014 and January 2015 were included in this study. Patients who
underwent electrophysiological examinations were evaluated for polyneuropathy.
Patients with polyneuropathy were classified as a patient group and other patients as
a control group. In all cases, MMSE and MoCA were administered. The demographic
data and educational status of the patients were recorded. Hypertension, coronary
artery disease, smoking and alcohol use were questioned. Their complaints, duration
of illness and the treatment they were receiving were questioned. Glycosylated
hemoglobin (HBA1C) values in the last three months and physical examination
findings of patients were recorded. Patients with and without polyneuropathy were
compared with statistical methods.RESULTS: Polyneuropathy was detected in 34 (42%) of the 81 patients who
participated in our study. The age, disease duration and HBA1C levels were
statistically higher in the polyneuropathy group than in the control group (p=0.024,
p=0.000, p=0.016). However, there was no statistically significant difference between
MMSE and MoCA scores of these groups. In both groups, there were no patients
scoring below the MMSE cut-off value of 24. Seventeen of the 34 patients (50%) in
the polyneuropathic group and 19 (40,4%) of the 47 patients in the control group had
scores below the MoCA cut-off value 21. However, there was no statistically
significant difference between the two groups. We also found that the mean MoCA
value of all DM patients was 21, which was the MoCA cut-off value. Also, factors
affecting cognitive functions in all Type 2 DM patients were evaluated by logistic
regression analysis, and it was found that duration of education was an independent
factor affecting cognitive impairment (OR=8.167; p=0.001).
CONCLUSION: In our study, we did not observe significant differences between
MMSE and MoCA scores of Type 2 DM patients with and without polyneuropathy.
However, the cross-sectional nature of our study makes it impossible to comment on
this issue. To clarify whether the presence of polyneuropathy is a predictive factor in
the development of cognitive impairment in Type 2 DM, there is a need for a larger
sample group and long-term follow-up studies. It has also been shown that patients
with Type 2 DM may have low scores according to the MOBID cut-off value even
though peripheral neurologic involvement findings are not observed. In the Type 2
DM population, it has also been shown that MoCA may be affected by education
level.
Copyright: © 2020 by The Medical Bulletin of Sisli Etfal Hospital.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Timer, Sibel Mumcu, Timer, Emin, Yukselen, Nihan Parasiz, Gokyigit, Munevver
Celik
Institution
Timer, Sibel Mumcu. Department of Neurology, Health Sciences University, Bagcilar
Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.   Timer, Emin. Department of
Neurophysiology, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.
Yukselen, Nihan Parasiz. Department of Neurology, University of Health Sciences,
Fatih Sultan Mehmet Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.
Gokyigit, Munevver Celik. Department of Electroneurophysiology, Beykent University
Vocational High School, Istanbul, Turkey.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
73.
  
Irisin protects the substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons in the rat model of
Parkinson's disease.
Zarbakhsh S, Safari M, Aldaghi MR, Sameni HR, Ghahari L, Khaleghi Lagmouj Y,
Rahimi Jaberi K, Parsaie HIranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 22(7):722-728, 2019 Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32373292
OBJECTIVES: Exercise ameliorates the quality of life and reduces the risk of
neurological derangements such as Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD).
Irisin is a product of the physical activity and is a circulating hormone that regulates
the energy metabolism in the body. In the nervous system, Irisin influences
neurogenesis and neural differentiation in mice. We previously demonstrated that co-
treatment of bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs) with a neurotrophic factor reduce
Parkinson's symptoms. Our goal in this project was to evaluate whether Irisin with
BMSCs can protect the dopaminergic (DA) neurons in PD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 35 adult male Wistar rat weighing (200-250 g) were
chosen. They were separated into five experimental groups (n=7). To create a
Parkinson's model, intranasal (IN) administration of the MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-
1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) was used. The BMSCs (2x106) and Irisin (50 nm/ml) was
used for 7 days for treatment after creation of the PD model. After completion of the
tests (4 weeks), their brains were used for the TUNEL and immunohistochemical
(IHC) assays.
RESULTS: One of the important results of this study was that the Irisin induce
BMSCs transport into the injured area of the brain. Co-treatment of the Irisin with
BMSCs increased tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons (TH+) in substantia nigra
(SN) and striatum of the PD mice brain. In this group, the number of TUNEL-positive
cells significantly decreased. Behavioral symptoms were better in the combination
group and Irisin simultaneously.
CONCLUSION: Co- treatment of Irisin with BMSCs protects the DA neurons from
degeneration and apoptotic process after MPTP injection.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarbakhsh, Sam, Safari, Manouchehr, Aldaghi, Mohammad Reza, Sameni, Hamid
Reza, Ghahari, Laya, Khaleghi Lagmouj, Younes, Rahimi Jaberi, Khojasteh, Parsaie,
Houman
Institution
Zarbakhsh, Sam. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.   Safari,
Manouchehr. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Aldaghi, Mohammad Reza. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Sameni, Hamid Reza. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department
of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Ghahari, Laya. Department of Anatomy, AJA University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.
Khaleghi Lagmouj, Younes. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Rahimi Jaberi, Khojasteh. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Parsaie, Houman. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
74.
  
Magnesium Increases the Protective Effect of Citicoline on Aluminum Chloride-
induced Cognitive Impairment.
Hosseini-Sharifabad A, Rabbani M, Seyed-Yousefi Y, Safavi M
Clinical Psychopharmacology & Neuroscience. 18(2):241-248, 2020 May 31.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32329305
OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer's disease is a popular neurodegenerative disorder which is
growing in the elderly people. Exposure to environmental pollutant like aluminum
could trigger or accelerate its involved mechanisms like tau phosphorylation. The
current study will evaluate the effect of alone or co-administration of Citicoline or/and
magnesium on the aluminum chloride induced memory impairment.
METHODS: Male albino mice were randomly divided into different groups (n = 7).
Memory impairment was induced via orally administration of 300 mg/kg Aluminum
Chloride for 28 days. Based on respective group, animals received 100, 250, 500
mg/kg of Citicoline or 50, 100, 150 mg/kg of Magnesium sulfate (MgSO4),
intraperitoneally. In co-administration, 50 mg/kg of MgSO4 injected concomitantly
with 100, 250, or 500 mg/kg of Citicoline. Rivastigmine (2 mg/kg intraperitoneally)
was used as a positive control. Memory was evaluated using the Object Recognition
Task (ORT) and Passive Avoidance Test (PAT).
RESULTS: The studied doses of Citicoline or MgSO4 when administered individually
showed significant increase in the discrimination index in ORT and latency time in the
PAT compared to the Aluminium chloride (AlCl3) treated group. Concomitant
injection of 50 mg/kg MgSO4 with the different doses of Citicoline strongly increased
the above indices values in comparison to each alone.
CONCLUSION: The findings show, individual administration of Citicoline or MgSO4
inverted the AlCl3-induced memory impairment in a dose independent manner. The
addition of MgSO4 to the Citicoline showed a synergistic effect in the PAT and likely
additive effect in the ORT.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8483-5560   Rabbani,
Mohammad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5457-7185 
Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3765-7001 
Safavi, Maryam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1356-0424 
Authors Full Name
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali, Rabbani, Mohammad, Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman, Safavi,
Maryam
Institution
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.   Rabbani,
Mohammad. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.Safavi, Maryam. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
75.
  
Experimental Effects of Acute High-Intensity Resistance Exercise on Episodic
Memory Function: Consideration for Post-Exercise Recovery Period.
Loprinzi PD, Green D, Wages S, Cheke LG, Jones T
Journal of Lifestyle Medicine. 10(1):7-20, 2020 Jan 31.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32328444
BACKGROUND: The present experiments evaluated the effects of acute high-
intensity resistance exercise on episodic memory.
METHODS: Two experiments were conducted. For Experiment 1, participants (N =
40; Mage = 21.0 years) were randomized into one of two groups, including an
experimental exercise group and a control group (seated for 20 min). The
experimental group engaged in an acute bout of resistance exercises (circuit style
exercises) for 15 minutes, followed by a 5-min recovery period. Memory function was
subsequently assessed using a multiple trial (immediate and delay), word-list
episodic memory task (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, RAVLT), and then
followed by a comprehensive, computerized assessment of episodic memory
(Treasure Hunt task, THT). The THT involved a spatio-temporal assessment of what,
where, and when components of episodic memory. Experiment 2 evaluated if altering
the recovery period would influence the potential negative effects of high-intensity
resistance exercise on episodic memory function. For Experiment 2, participants (N =
51) were randomized into the same acute resistance exercise protocol but either with
a 10-min recovery period, 20-min recovery period, or a control group.
RESULTS: For Experiment 1, for RAVLT, the exercise group performed worse
(Fgroup x time = 3.7, p = .001, eta 2p = .09). Across nearly all THT outcomes, the
exercise group had worse spatio-temporal memory than the control group. These
results suggest that high-intensity resistance exercise (with a 5-min recovery) may
have a detrimental effect on episodic memory function. For Experiment 2, for RAVLT,
the exercise with 10-min recovery group performed better (Fgroup x time = 3.1, p =
.04, eta 2p = .11). Unlike Experiment 1, exercise did not impair spatio-temporal
memory, with the 20-min exercise recovery group having the best "where"
component of episodic memory.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, the results from these two experiments suggest that
acute high-intensity resistance exercise may impair episodic memory when a short
exercise recovery period (e.g., 5-min) is employed, but with a longer recovery period
(10+ min), acute high-intensity resistance exercise may, potentially, enhance
episodic memory.
Copyright © 2020 Journal of Lifestyle Medicine.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Loprinzi, Paul D, Green, David, Wages, Shelby, Cheke, Lucy G, Jones, Timothy
Institution
Loprinzi, Paul D. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.   Green, David. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Wages, Shelby. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Cheke, Lucy G. Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
UK.
Jones, Timothy. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
76.
  
Prevalence of psychiatric disorders among older adults in Jodhpur and stakeholders
perspective on responsive health system.
Patel M, Bhardwaj P, Nebhinani N, Goel AD, Patel K
Journal of Family Medicine & Primary Care. 9(2):714-720, 2020 Feb.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32318408
BACKGROUND: Ageing is an inescapable reality of human existence. The elderly
population of India is steadily increasing with growing mental health needs which
pose many challenges for the health care system. The aim of this study is to assess
anxiety, depression, and cognitive disorders among urban and rural elderly and to
explore the availability of social support mechanisms and a responsive health system
for elderly.
METHODS: This study is a mixed-method approach. For a quantitative study, a
community-based cross-sectional survey is conducted in Jodhpur, Rajasthan. A total
of 330 elderly persons aged 60 years and above are randomly screened for
depression (GDS), anxiety (GAD), and cognitive impairment (HMSE). Further for a
qualitative study, in-depth interviews are conducted with 7 key informants including
policy and program managers, service providers, and facilitators from the state. For
quantitative data analysis, Excel and SPSS are used and for Qualitative data
analysis, Thematic Framework Approach is used.
RESULTS: The mean age of the respondents is 67.9 +/- 7.8. The prevalence of
severe depression is 17%, severe anxiety is 10.3%, and cognitive impairment is
51.2%. The prevalence of all the three is more in rural elderly as compared to urban
elderly as well as more in female individuals as compared to males. Qualitative
analysis revealed that there are challenges in early identification of mental disorders
at both the levels: service providers and elderly. Psychological and financial issuesare also seen in elderly who are not supported by their children. There are cases of
fear for elder abuse and influence of western culture in the society.
CONCLUSION: There is a sizeable prevalence of psychological issues in elderly
population. Therefore, there is a need to adopt holistic and integrated psychogeriatric
services for the improvement of quality of life in elderly.
Copyright: © Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Patel, Mamta, Bhardwaj, Pankaj, Nebhinani, Naresh, Goel, Akhil Dhanesh, Patel,
Kamlesh
Institution
Patel, Mamta. School of Public Health, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.   Bhardwaj,
Pankaj. School of Public Health, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Bhardwaj, Pankaj. Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, AIIMS,
Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Nebhinani, Naresh. Department of Psychiatry, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Goel, Akhil Dhanesh. Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine,
AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Patel, Kamlesh. S.N Medical College, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
77.
  
Screening for Cognitive Frailty Using Short Cognitive Screening Instruments:
Comparison of the Chinese Versions of the MoCA and Qmci Screen.
Xu Y, Lin Y, Yi L, Li Z, Li X, Yu Y, Guo Y, Wang Y, Jiang H, Chen Z, Svendrovski A,
Gao Y, Molloy DW, O'Caoimh R
Frontiers in Psychology. 11:558, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32308636
BACKGROUND: Cognitive frailty describes cognitive impairment associated with
physical decline. Few studies have explored whether short cognitive screens identify
frailty. We examined the diagnostic accuracy of the Chinese versions of the Quick
Mild Cognitive Impairment (Qmci-CN) screen and Montreal Cognitive Assessment
(MoCA-CN) in identifying cognitive frailty.
METHODS: Ninety-five participants with cognitive symptoms [47 with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI), 34 with subjective cognitive disorder, and 14 with dementia] were
included from two outpatient rehabilitation clinics. Energy (work intensity) and
physical activity levels were recorded. Cognitive frailty was diagnosed by an
interdisciplinary team using the IANA/IAGG consensus criteria, stratified on the
Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS). Instruments were administered sequentially and
randomly by trained assessors, blind to the diagnosis.
RESULTS: The mean age of the sample was 62.6 +/- 10.2 years; median CFS score
was 4 +/- 1 and 36 (38%) were cognitively frail. The Qmci-CN had similar accuracy indifferentiating the non-frail from cognitively frail compared to the MoCA-CN, AUC
0.82 versus 0.74, respectively (p = 0.19). At its optimal cut-off (<=55/100), the Qmci-
CN provided a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 67% versus 91% and 51%,
respectively, for the MoCA-CN (<=23/30). Neither was accurate in separating MCI
from cognitive frailty but both accurately separated cognitive frailty from dementia.
CONCLUSION: Established short cognitive screens may be useful in identifying
cognitive frailty in Chinese adults with cognitive complaints but not in separating MCI
from cognitive frailty. The Qmci-CN had similar accuracy to the MoCA-CN and a
shorter administration time in this small and under-powered study, necessitating the
need for adequately powered studies in different healthcare settings.
Copyright © 2020 Xu, Lin, Yi, Li, Li, Yu, Guo, Wang, Jiang, Chen, Svendrovski, Gao,
Molloy and O'Caoimh.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Xu, Yangfan, Lin, Yangyang, Yi, Lingrong, Li, Zhao, Li, Xian, Yu, Yuying, Guo,
Yuxiao, Wang, Yuling, Jiang, Haoying, Chen, Zhuoming, Svendrovski, Anton, Gao,
Yang, Molloy, D William, O'Caoimh, Ronan
Institution
Xu, Yangfan. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.   Lin, Yangyang. Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University,
Guangzhou, China.
Yi, Lingrong. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yi, Lingrong. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital,
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
Li, Zhao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Li, Zhao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Mianzhu Hospital of West China
Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
Li, Xian. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yu, Yuying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yu, Yuying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Second People's Hospital of
Foshan, Foshan, China.
Guo, Yuxiao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Guo, Yuxiao. UCL Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, London, United
Kingdom.
Wang, Yuling. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Jiang, Haoying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of
Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
Jiang, Haoying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Jilin Provincial People's
Hospital, Jilin, China.
Chen, Zhuoming. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital
of Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
Svendrovski, Anton. UZIK Consulting Inc., Toronto, ON, Canada.
Gao, Yang. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College Cork, St
Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
Molloy, D William. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College
Cork, St Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
Molloy, D William. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Mercy University Hospital, Cork,
Ireland.O'Caoimh, Ronan. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College
Cork, St Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
O'Caoimh, Ronan. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Mercy University Hospital,
Cork, Ireland.
O'Caoimh, Ronan. Clinical Sciences Institute, National University of Ireland Galway,
Galway, Ireland.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
78.
  
Curcumin Effects on Memory Impairment and Restoration of Irregular Neuronal
Distribution in the Hippocampal CA1 Region After Global Cerebral Ischemia in Male
Rats.
Kamali Dolatabadi L, Emamghoreishi M, Namavar MR, Badeli Sarkala H
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 10(5):527-539, 2019 Sep-Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32284841
INTRODUCTION: Global Cerebral Ischemia (GCI) causes neuronal damage with
subsequent neurological and cognitive impairments. Curcumin has anti-inflammatory,
antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties, which makes it a potential candidate for
improving GCI-induced impairments. This study aimed to investigate the effects of
curcumin on the neurological and memory deficits, as well as spatial neuronal
distribution in the Cornu Ammonis 1 region after GCI in rats.
METHODS: 56 Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomly assigned into 4 groups of
sham (n=14), control (n=14), curcumin 50 mg/kg (n=14), and curcumin 100 mg/kg
(n=14). Each group was divided into the two subgroups of short-term (7 days) and
long-term (28 days) treatment periods. The Neurological Severity Score (NSS),
passive avoidance task, and the traction test were performed at postoperative days
of 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28. The novel object recognition test and Voronoi
tessellation were carried out on days 7 and 28 after GCI.
RESULTS: Curcumin 100 mg/kg significantly decreased neurological severity score
on postoperative days of 7 and 28 compared with the control (P<0.001) and
curcumin 50 mg/kg groups (P<0.05-P<0.001), respectively. Also, curcumin 100
mg/kg significantly increased step-through latency times on postoperative days of 3-
28 and 14-28 compared with the control (P<0.05-P<0.001) and curcumin 50 mg/kg
groups (P<0.01-P<0.001). Moreover, it increased the novelty preference index during
the novel object recognition test in the 28-day treatment subgroup after GCI.
Curcumin (100 mg/kg) could maintain the neuronal aggregation in the CA1 region
after GCI at a level near to what is generally observed in normal rats.
CONCLUSION: Curcumin could improve memory and neurological deficits and
restore irregular neuronal distribution in the CA1 region after GCI in a time-
dependent manner, and its higher dose was more effective than its lower dose.
Curcumin may have beneficial effects on reducing brain complications after ischemia.
Copyright© 2019 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Kamali Dolatabadi, Leila, Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh, Namavar, Mohammad Reza,
Badeli Sarkala, Hamze
Institution
Kamali Dolatabadi, Leila. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced
Medical Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz,
Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Research Center for Psychiatry and Behavior Science,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Clinical Neurology Research Center, Shiraz University
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Histomorphometry and Stereology Research Center,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Badeli Sarkala, Hamze. Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
79.
  
High anxiety and depressive symptoms in partners of type 1 diabetes persons in a
sample of the Brazilian population.
Buin E, Pavin EJ, Silveira MSVM
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome. 12:23, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32211074
BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetes (T1D) affects psychologically not only the persons
with diabetes themselves but affects their family members. Few studies were
conducted to investigate mental health in T1D partners. This study aims: (1) to
investigate the frequency of depressive and anxiety symptoms in T1D partners and,
(2) to investigate the associations among partners' depressive and anxiety symptoms
and their sociodemographic and behavioral characteristics, and (3) to investigate the
associations among partners' depressive and anxiety symptoms and clinical,
laboratory and demographic characteristics of their T1D spouses in a Brazilian
population.
METHODS: In a transversal study 72 T1D partners were interviewed. Partners were
invited to take part in the study during their T1D spouses' routine consultations.
Those who consented to take part in the study signed the consent form. This study
followed the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the
University Ethics in Research Committee. Inclusion criteria were T1D partners age
>= 18 and T1D diagnosis > 6 months. Exclusion criteria were cognitive impairment,history of major psychiatric disorders, and severe chronic and terminal diseases.
Depressive symptoms were evaluated by the depression subscale of the Hospital
Anxiety and Depression scale (HADD) and anxiety symptoms were evaluated by the
anxiety subscale of the same instrument (HADA). T1D partners were divided into
subgroups according to score >= 8 and < 8 in both subscales. Demographic and
clinical data were obtained from interview. Descriptive analyses were undertaken
using means and percentages, as appropriate. Differences between groups were
assessed by the Mann-Whitney test for numerical variables, by the Chi Square test
or by Fisher's exact test for categorical variables, as appropriate. All analyses were
undertaken using SAS version 9.2 for Windows. Statistical significance was set at
0.05.
RESULTS: Of all 72 T1D partners, 72.2% were male, mean age was 42.7 +/- 14.1
years old, years of school attendance were 11.8 +/- 3.9 years, and 48.5% had
income reaching until 3 Brazilian minimal wages. Forty-three percent reported high
anxiety symptoms (HADA >= 8) and 18.1% reported high depressive symptoms
(HADD >= 8). Comparing T1D partners group with HADA >= 8 and < 8, the first one
was associated with CGM use (41.94% vs 19.51%; p = 0.03). Similarly, comparing
T1D partners group with HADD >= 8 and < 8, the first one was associated with (1)
longer duration of T1D of their spouses (28.6 +/- 7.1 vs 22.4 +/- 12.2; p = 0.02); (2)
less years of school attendance of T1D partners (9.3 +/- 3.2 vs 12.3 +/- 3.8; p =
0.02), and (3) higher number of hypoglycemic episodes requiring other person's
intervention (6.3 +/- 8.9 vs 2.4 +/- 4.7; p = 0.009). Seventy-six percent of partners
who helped personally in their spouses' hypoglycemia recovery had HADD >= 8 vs
44.7% with HADD < 8 (p = 0.03). Likewise, 84.6% vs 54.2% of partners in which their
spouses have T1D chronic complications had HADD >= 8 and < 8, respectively (p =
0.04).
CONCLUSION: This study showed a high frequency of relevant anxiety and
depressive symptoms in this T1D partner population. Several issues related to T1D
of their spouses were associated with these symptoms. These results emphasize the
need to incorporate the psychological and psychiatric aspects into T1D partners'
education and care.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2020.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Buin, E; GRID: grid.411087.b   Buin, E; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Pavin, E J; GRID: grid.411087.b
Pavin, E J; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Silveira, M S V M; GRID: grid.411087.b
Silveira, M S V M; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Authors Full Name
Buin, E, Pavin, E J, Silveira, M S V M
Institution
Buin, E. 1Internal Medicine Postgraduate Program, Faculty of Medical Sciences,
State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.   Pavin, E J.
2Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medical
Sciences, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Silveira, M S V M. 2Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty
of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
80.
  
Biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease: Evaluation of platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12.
Dos Santos GAA, Pardi PC
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(1):35-40, 2020 Jan-Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32206196
Currently, the most likely hypotheses as the cause of Alzheimer's disease are
deposition of amyloid beta peptide in the cerebral cortex and hyperphosphorylation of
Tau protein. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is based on the exclusion of other
diseases, behavioral assessments, and blood and imaging tests. Biotechnology has
created interesting perspectives for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease
through blood analysis, with special attention to platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the concentrations of platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12 in the blood of older adults with and without dementia of Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: A case-control study involving 120 individuals was conducted, seeking to
establish a correlation between changes in platelet, hemoglobin and vitamin B12
concentrations in patients with confirmed AD and in individuals in the inclusion group
without AD. The study met the established ethical requirements.
RESULTS: Hemoglobin and platelet levels were statistically lower in patients with
AD. The biochemical evaluation in AD patient and healthy groups for vitamin B12
showed a decrease in the levels of this compound in patients with AD.
CONCLUSION: We demonstrated the feasibility of the use of blood biomarkers as
predictive markers for the diagnosis of AD.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3326-5537 
Authors Full Name
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade, Pardi, Paulo Celso
Institution
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade. Universidade de Sao Paulo - USP. Faculdade
de Medicina de Ribeirao Preto. Departamento de Anatomia e Cirurgia. Ribeirao
Preto, SP, Brazil.   Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade. Centro Universitario do
Senac - Unidade Tiradentes. Departamento de Pos-graduacao em Farmacia.
Pardi, Paulo Celso. Universidade Anhanguera Guarulhos. Departamento de
Biomedicina, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Atualmente, as hipoteses mais provaveis como causa da doenca de Alzheimer sao a
deposicao do peptideo beta amiloide no cortex cerebral e a hiperfosforilacao da
proteina Tau. O diagnostico da doenca de Alzheimer baseia-se na exclusao de
outras doencas, avaliacoes comportamentais e exames de imagem e sangue. A
biotecnologia criou perspectivas interessantes para a deteccao precoce da doenca
de Alzheimer, pela analise sanguinea, com atencao especial as plaquetas,
hemoglobina e vitamina B12.OBJETIVO: Avaliar as concentracoes de plaquetas,
hemoglobina e vitamina B12 no sangue de idosos com e sem demencia de
Alzheimer.METODOS: O estudo de caso-controle envolveu 120 individuos,buscando correlacao entre mudancas nas concentracoes de plaquetas, hemoglobina
e vitamina B12 em pacientes com DA confirmada e individuos do grupo de inclusao,
sem DA.RESULTADOS: Os niveis de hemoglobina e plaquetas sao estatisticamente
mais baixos em pacientes com DA. A avaliacao bioquimica em pacientes com DA e
grupos saudaveis para vitamina B12 mostrou uma diminuicao nos niveis deste
composto em pacientes com DA.CONCLUSAO: Demonstramos a viabilidade do uso
de biomarcadores sanguineos como marcadores preditivos para o diagnostico de
DA.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
81.
  
The Association Between Body Mass Index and Comorbidity, Quality of Life, and
Cognitive Function in the Elderly Population.
Rambod M, Ghodsbin F, Moradi A
International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery. 8(1):45-54, 2020
Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32039279
BACKGROUND: Debate still exists regarding physical and cognitive factors
associated with Body Mass Index (BMI) in the elderly population. This study aimed to
determine the association between BMI and comorbidity, Quality of Life (QOL), and
cognitive function in the elderly population.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study was conducted from October 2017 to January
2018. The participants included 246 old people who referred to Imam Reza elderly
clinic, Shiraz, Iran. The data were collected using Leipad Quality of Life
Questionnaire and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Indeed, weight and
height were measured to assess the BMI. The data were entered into SPSS, version
21, and analyzed using ANOVA, Chi-square test, Pearson correlation coefficient, and
multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS: This study showed that 104 (47%) of the participants were overweight
and obese. The mean+/-SD score of QOL was 46.14+/-12.01. Additionally, 93
(37.8%) of the participants had cognitive impairment. The results showed a
significant difference among normal weight, overweight, and obese groups regarding
the mean scores of QOL (P<0.001) and cognitive function (P<0.001). Moreover, 29%
of the changes in BMI was explained by QOL, cognitive function, and having
hypertension and cancer. Among these variables, the associations between BMI and
QOL (r=-0.52, P<0.001) and cognitive function (r=-0.28, P<0.001) were significant.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that half of the old people suffered from
overweight and obesity. Moreover, roughly one-third had cognitive impairment. In
addition, BMI was associated with QOL and cognitive function in the elderly.
Therefore, healthcare workers might use these findings to design prevention and
treatment programs targeting the elderly population.
Copyright: © Shiraz University of Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Rambod, Masoume, Ghodsbin, Fariba, Moradi, Ali
Institution
Rambod, Masoume. Community Based Psychiatric Care Research Center,
Department of Nursing, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Ghodsbin, Fariba. Shiraz Geriatric Research
Center, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences,
Shiraz, Iran.
Moradi, Ali. Student Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences,
Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
82.
  
Effects of Tai Chi Chuan on Inhibitory Control in Elderly Women: An fNIRS Study.
Yang Y, Chen T, Shao M, Yan S, Yue GH, Jiang C
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience. 13:476, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32038205
BACKGROUND: Inhibitory control is a sub-ability of executive function and plays an
important role in the entire cognitive process. However, declines in inhibitory control
during aging significantly impair the quality of life of elderly people. Investigating
methods to delay the decline of inhibitory control has become a focal point in current
research. Tai Chi Chuan (TCC) is one effective method used to delay cognitive
declines in older adults. However, the specific effects of TCC on inhibitory control
and the mechanisms through which TCC may improve cognition in older adults have
not been comprehensively investigated.
OBJECTIVE: The study explores possible neurological mechanisms related to the
effects of TCC interventions on inhibitory control in older people using a functional
near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) technique and reaction times (RTs).
METHODS: A total of 26 healthy, elderly people who had not received TCC training
completed all study procedures. The subjects were randomized to either the TCC
group or the control group. Subjects in the TCC group were taught TCC by a certified
instructor and trained for 8 weeks. The control group continued to perform general
daily activities. The Flanker task was administered to every participant to evaluate
inhibitory control pre- and post-intervention. While participants were performing the
Flanker task, fNIRS data were collected.
RESULTS: Post-intervention, significant differences for incongruent flankers were
found only for the TCC intervention group. Faster RTs were observed for the
incongruent flankers in the TCC group than in the control group (p < 0.05). Analysis
of the fNIRS data revealed an increase in oxy-Hb in the prefrontal cortex during the
incongruent flankers after the TCC exercise intervention.
CONCLUSION: The TCC intervention significantly improved inhibitory control in older
adults, suggesting that TCC is an effective, suitable exercise for improving executive
function and neurological health in elderly people.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Register,
ChiCTR1900028457.
Copyright © 2020 Yang, Chen, Shao, Yan, Yue and Jiang.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yang, Yuan, Chen, Tingting, Shao, Mingming, Yan, Shoufu, Yue, Guang H, Jiang,
Changhao
Institution
Yang, Yuan. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and Technical
Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.   Yang,
Yuan. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Chen, Tingting. School of Education, Beijing Dance Academy, Beijing, China.
Shao, Mingming. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and
Technical Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing,
China.
Shao, Mingming. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of
Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Yan, Shoufu. School of Kinesiology and Health, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Yue, Guang H. Center for Mobility and Rehabilitation Engineering, Kessler
Foundation, West Orange, NJ, United States.
Yue, Guang H. Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The State University of
New Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States.
Jiang, Changhao. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and
Technical Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing,
China.
Jiang, Changhao. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of
Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Jiang, Changhao. School of Kinesiology and Health, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
83.
  
Differences in Psychotropic Drug Prescribing Between Ethnic Groups of People with
Dementia in the United Kingdom.
Jones ME, Petersen I, Walters K, Bhanu C, Manthorpe J, Raine R, Mukadam N,
Cooper C
Clinical Epidemiology. 12:61-71, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32021472
PURPOSE: To test hypotheses that minority ethnic people with dementia in the UK
receive fewer anti-dementia drugs and more psychotropic and anticholinergic drugsassociated with harms.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed UK primary care electronic health records
from The Health Improvement Network (THIN) database (2014-2016), comparing
psychotropic drug prescribing initiation and duration between people with dementia
from White, Black, and Asian ethnic groups. We repeated analyses in people (aged
50+) without dementia, to explore whether any differences found reflected
prescribing patterns in the general older population, or were specific to dementia.
RESULTS: We included 53,718 people with and 1,648,889 people without dementia.
Among people with dementia, compared to White ethnic groups, Asian people were
less likely to be prescribed anti-dementia drugs when they were potentially indicated
(adjusted prevalence rate ratio 0.86 (95% Confidence Interval 0.76-0.98)), and
received them for on average 15 days/year less. Compared to White groups, Asian
and Black individuals with dementia were no more likely to take an antipsychotic
drug, but those that had were prescribed them for 17 and 27 days/year more,
respectively (190.8 (179.6-199.1) and 200.7 (191.1-206.5) days). Black people were
less likely to be prescribed anxiolytics/hypnotics (0.60 (0.44-0.8)), but the duration
these drugs were prescribed was similar across ethnic groups. Asian people were
more likely to be prescribed anticholinergic drugs (1.43 (1.19-1.73)), in analyses
unadjusted for cardiovascular comorbidities. Among people without dementia, those
in the Asian and Black ethnic groups were less likely to be prescribed psychotropic
drugs, relative to people from White groups.
CONCLUSION: Among people with dementia, Asian groups received less potentially
beneficial symptomatic treatments, and Asian and Black groups were prescribed
antipsychotic drugs for longer than White ethnic groups. Our findings may indicate
care inequalities.
Copyright © 2020 Jones et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Petersen, Irene; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0037-7524   Walters, Kate;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2173-2430 
Bhanu, Cini; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3168-4172 
Authors Full Name
Jones, Mary Elizabeth, Petersen, Irene, Walters, Kate, Bhanu, Cini, Manthorpe, Jill,
Raine, Rosalind, Mukadam, Naaheed, Cooper, Claudia
Institution
Jones, Mary Elizabeth. Department of Primary Care and Population Health,
University College London, London, UK.   Petersen, Irene. Department of Primary
Care and Population Health, University College London, London, UK.
Walters, Kate. Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University
College London, London, UK.
Bhanu, Cini. Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College
London, London, UK.
Manthorpe, Jill. NIHR Health and Social Care Workforce Research Unit, King's
College London, London, UK.
Raine, Rosalind. Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London,
London, UK.
Mukadam, Naaheed. Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
Cooper, Claudia. Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
84.
  
Radioiodine Therapy of Graves' Disease and the Uptake Paradox.
Malapure SS, Mukherjee A, Bal C
Indian Journal of Nuclear Medicine. 35(1):17-20, 2020 Jan-Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31949364
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Radioiodine (131I) therapy is approved and well-
accepted modality for the treatment of hyperthyroidism. The dosage of 131I for
successful treatment is based on many factors; however, an objective tool to
determine the dose was missing. In a retrospective study, we found that high 131I
uptake values required more dose to achieve desirable results contrary to the belief.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Clinically and scintigraphically proven Graves'
disease patients with high 131I uptake (>50%) were accrued for this study and block
randomized into low-dose (Group I) and high-dose (Group II) groups. Low activity (5
mCi) was administered in Group I and higher activity (10 mCi) in Group II. The
patients were followed up after 3 months with thyroid function tests to determine the
outcome.
RESULTS: A total of 344 patients were analyzed at the end of 3 months, with 174 in
low-dose group and 170 in high-dose group. Euthyroidism/hypothyroidism was
achieved in significantly higher number of patients as compared to the low-dose
group.
CONCLUSION: The higher dose of 131I is required to achieve
euthyroidism/hypothyroidism in patients with high 131I uptake.
Copyright: © 2019 Indian Journal of Nuclear Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Malapure, Sumeet Suresh, Mukherjee, Anirban, Bal, Chandrasekar
Institution
Malapure, Sumeet Suresh. Department of Radiotherapy, Nuclear Medicine Division,
Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, Karnataka, India.   Mukherjee, Anirban.
Department of Nuclear Medicine, AMRI Hospital, Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
Bal, Chandrasekar. Department of Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
85.
  A Comparison Study of Cilostazol and Aspirin on Changes in Volume of Cerebral
Small Vessel Disease White Matter Changes: Protocol of a Multicenter, Randomized
Controlled Trial.
Han HJ, Kim BC, Youn YC, Jeong JH, Kim JH, Lee JH, Park KH, Park KW, Kim EJ,
Oh MS, Shim YS, Park HY, Yoon B, Yoon SJ, Cho SJ, Park KC, Na DL, Park SA,
Lee JM, Choi SH
Dementia and Neurocognitive Disorders. 18(4):138-148, 2019 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31942173
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) is the most
common cause of vascular dementia and a major contributor to mixed dementia.
CSVD is characterized by progressive cerebral white matter changes (WMC) due to
chronic low perfusion and loss of autoregulation. In addition to its antiplatelet effect,
cilostazol exerts a vasodilating effect and improves endothelial function. This study
aims to compare the effects of cilostazol and aspirin on changes in WMC volume in
CSVD.
METHODS: The comparison study of Cilostazol and aspirin on cHAnges in volume of
cerebral smaLL vEssel disease white matter chaNGEs (CHALLENGE) is a double
blind, randomized trial involving 19 hospitals across South Korea. Patients with
moderate or severe WMC and >= 1 lacunar infarction detected on brain magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) are eligible; the projected sample size is 254. Participants
are randomly assigned to a cilostazol or aspirin group at a 1:1 ratio. Cilostazol slow
release 200 mg or aspirin 100 mg are taken once daily for 2 years. The primary
outcome measure is the change in WMC volume on MRI from baseline to 104
weeks. Secondary imaging outcomes include changes in the number of lacunes and
cerebral microbleeds, fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity on diffusion tensor
imaging, and brain atrophy. Secondary clinical outcomes include all ischemic strokes,
all vascular events, and changes in cognition, motor function, mood, urinary
symptoms, and disability.
CONCLUSIONS: CHALLENGE will provide evidence to support the selection of long-
term antiplatelet therapy in CSVD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01932203.
Copyright © 2019 Korean Dementia Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Han, Hyun Jeong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1129-6340   Kim, Byeong C;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6827-6730 
Youn, Young Chul; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2742-1759 
Jeong, Jee Hyang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7945-6956 
Kim, Jong Hun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2594-1048 
Lee, Jae-Hong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7368-4560 
Park, Kee Hyung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6847-6679 
Park, Kyung Won; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6788-5267 
Kim, Eun-Joo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8460-1377 
Oh, Mi Sun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6741-0464 
Shim, Yong S; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5642-5401 
Park, Hyun Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1394-9453 
Yoon, Bora; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1135-3392 
Yoon, Soo Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4671-6832 
Cho, Soo-Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4053-3763 
Park, Key Chung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8250-9561 
Na, Duk L; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0098-7592 
Park, Sun Ah; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3027-3259 
Lee, Jong-Min; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3598-376X 
Choi, Seong Hye; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4180-8626 Authors Full Name
Han, Hyun Jeong, Kim, Byeong C, Youn, Young Chul, Jeong, Jee Hyang, Kim, Jong
Hun, Lee, Jae-Hong, Park, Kee Hyung, Park, Kyung Won, Kim, Eun-Joo, Oh, Mi
Sun, Shim, Yong S, Park, Hyun Young, Yoon, Bora, Yoon, Soo Jin, Cho, Soo-Jin,
Park, Key Chung, Na, Duk L, Park, Sun Ah, Lee, Jong-Min, Choi, Seong Hye
Institution
Han, Hyun Jeong. Department of Neurology, Myongji Hospital, Hanyang University
College of Medicine, Goyang, Korea.   Kim, Byeong C. Department of Neurology,
Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea.
Youn, Young Chul. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang
University, Seoul, Korea.
Jeong, Jee Hyang. Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Kim, Jong Hun. Department of Neurology, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan
Hospital, Goyang, Korea.
Lee, Jae-Hong. Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Park, Kee Hyung. Department of Neurology, Gil Medical Center, Gachon University
College of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Department of Neurology, Dong-A University College of Medicine,
Busan, Korea.
Kim, Eun-Joo. Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Hospital, Pusan
National University School of Medicine and Medical Research Institute, Busan,
Korea.
Oh, Mi Sun. Department of Neurology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital,
Hallym University College of Medicine, Anyang, Korea.
Shim, Yong S. Department of Neurology, The Catholic University of Korea
Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, Bucheon, Korea.
Park, Hyun Young. Department of Neurology, Wonkwang University School of
Medicine, Iksan, Korea.
Yoon, Bora. Department of Neurology, Konyang University College of Medicine,
Daejeon, Korea.
Yoon, Soo Jin. Department of Neurology, Eulji University Hospital, Eulji University
School of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea.
Cho, Soo-Jin. Department of Neurology, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart
Hospital, Hallym University College of Medicine, Hwaseong, Korea.
Park, Key Chung. Department of Neurology, Kyung Hee University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Na, Duk L. Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Park, Sun Ah. Department of Anatomy and Neurology, Ajou University School of
Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
Lee, Jong-Min. Department of Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul,
Korea.
Choi, Seong Hye. Department of Neurology, Inha University School of Medicine,
Incheon, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
  
86.
  
The Effect of Multi-tasking Exercise Intervention on Cognitive Function in Elderly and
Cognitive Impairment Patients: a Pilot Multicenter Study.
Lee HJ, Lee M, Park H, Park JH, Park KW
Dementia and Neurocognitive Disorders. 18(4):122-129, 2019 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31942171
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the
impact of multi-tasking exercise on cognitive and motor function in patients with mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) and cognitive normal elderly (CNE).
METHODS: A total of 144 subjects were recruited from 14 regional dementia centers
in Busan Metropolitan City. With the exception of 77 subjects unsuitable for the
study, 67 subjects participated in the intervention. The Korean version of Mini-Mental
State Examination for Dementia Screening (MMSE-DS), Subject Memory Complain
Questionnaire (SMCQ), and the Korean version of the Short-Form Geriatric
Depression Scale (SGDS-K) were used to determine changes in cognitive function
and depressive symptoms pre-post intervention in patients with MCI and CNE,
respectively. To observe changes in motor function, 5-chair sit to stand and 5-meter
walking speed on the lower body strength and walking ability were also measured in
both groups.
RESULTS: For the MCI group, changes in cognitive and depressive symptoms on
the tasks of MMSE-DS (p=0.006), SMCQ (p=0.000), SGDS-K (p=0.000) and the
result of the motor function analysis on the items of 5-chair sit to stand (p=0.000),
normal speed (p=0.004) and maximal speed (p=0.002) of 5-meter walking speed
(p<0.005). In the CNE group, all the items except MMSE-DS (p=0.068) and SGDS-K
(p=0.095) showed statistically significant improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Multi-tasking exercise intervention, including exercise and cognitive
tasks, may possibly improve the cognitive and motor function in patients with MCI
and CNE.
Copyright © 2019 Korean Dementia Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Lee, Hee Jae; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1212-6810   Lee, MinJae; ORCID:
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0244-0598 
Park, Hyuntae; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1976-0005 
Park, Jong Hwan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2815-7248 
Park, Kyung Won; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6788-5267 
Authors Full Name
Lee, Hee Jae, Lee, MinJae, Park, Hyuntae, Park, Jong Hwan, Park, Kyung Won
Institution
Lee, Hee Jae. Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.   Lee, MinJae.
Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.
Park, Hyuntae. Department of Healthcare and Science, Dong-A University, Busan,
Korea.
Park, Jong Hwan. Institute of Biomedical Research, Pusan National University
Hospital, Busan, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Department of Neurology, Dong-A University College of Medicine,
Busan, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
87.
  
Comparison of cholinesterase inhibitor safety in real-world practice.
Carney G, Bassett K, Wright JM, Maclure M, McGuire N, Dormuth CR
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions. 5:732-739,
2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31921965
INTRODUCTION: Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) are widely used to treat mild to
moderate Alzheimer's disease and related dementia. Clinical trials have focused on
placebo comparisons, inadequately addressing within-class comparative safety.
METHODS: New users of ChEIs in British Columbia were categorized into five study
cohorts: low-dose donepezil, high-dose donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine patch,
and oral rivastigmine. Comparative safety of ChEIs assessed hazard ratios using
propensity score adjusted Cox regression.
RESULTS: Compared with low-dose donepezil, galantamine use was associated
with a lower risk of mortality (adjusted hazard ratio: 0.84, 95% confidence interval:
0.60-1.18), cardiovascular serious adverse events (adjusted hazard ratio: 0.78, 95%
confidence interval: 0.62-0.98), and entry into a residential care facility (adjusted
hazard ratio: 0.72, 95% confidence interval: 0.59-0.89).
DISCUSSION: Given the absence of randomized trial data showing clinically
meaningful benefit of ChEI therapy in Alzheimer's disease, our study suggests
preferential use of galantamine may at least be associated with fewer adverse events
than treatment with donepezil or rivastigmine.
Copyright © 2019 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Carney, Greg, Bassett, Ken, Wright, James M, Maclure, Malcolm, McGuire, Nicolette,
Dormuth, Colin R
Institution
Carney, Greg. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada.   Carney, Greg. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and
Therapeutics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Department of Family Practice, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Maclure, Malcolm. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,BC, Canada.
Maclure, Malcolm. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
McGuire, Nicolette. Research and Innovation Division, B.C. Ministry of Health,
Victoria, BC, Canada.
Dormuth, Colin R. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada.
Dormuth, Colin R. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
88.
  
Evaluation of Postoperative Delirium: Validity and Reliability of the Nursing Delirium
Screening Scale in the Turkish Language.
Cinar F, Eti Aslan F
Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders Extra. 9(3):362-373, 2019 Sep-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31911787
PURPOSE: Postoperative delirium is the most well-known form of postoperative
cognitive impairment in all patient groups, especially in the elderly. Delirium is a
syndrome that causes serious consequences, increasing mortality and morbidity
rates and extending the length of hospital stay. The aim of this study was to evaluate
the validity and reliability of the Turkish version of the Nursing Delirium Screening
Scale (Nu-DESC).
METHOD: One hundred twelve patients who were hospitalized for a surgical
operation in the orthopedics, neurosurgery, and general surgery clinic of a state
hospital for 3 months were evaluated concurrently (and independently for delirium).
Patients were observed by clinical nurses 3 times over a 24-h period. The presence
of delirium was diagnosed by 2 neurologists according to DSM-IV criteria. Student's t
test, the chi2 test, and the Mann-Whitney U test were used, and construct validity,
intrascale factor analysis, interrater reliability, and specificity and sensitivity (ROC)
analyses were performed for descriptive analysis. SPSS 25.0 and MedCalc18.6 were
used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Delirium was detected in 28 patients according to the Nu-DESC. The ICC
(intraclass correlation) is 0.97 in the 95% confidence interval from 0.96 to 0.98 for
agreement between nurses and neurologists for the total Nu-DESC score. Weighted
kappa rates were between 0.78 and 0.92. In the ROC analysis of the Nu-DESC
scale, the optimum cutoff value calculated for the 1,344 observations and 112
patients was determined as >1 according to the maximum sensitivity and the specific
situation. Sensitivity at the cut-off point was 92.27; specificity was determined as
92.72. The Youden index was found to be J = 0.845 (0 < J = 0.845 < 1).
CONCLUSION: We believe that Turkish translation of Nu-DESC is valid and reliable
for clinicians, nurses, and researchers and will contribute to delirium studies.
Copyright © 2019 by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Cinar, Fadime, Eti Aslan, Fatma
Institution
Cinar, Fadime. Sabahattin Zaim University, Faculty of Health Sciences, Istanbul,
Turkey.   Eti Aslan, Fatma. Bahcesehir University, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Istanbul, Turkey.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
89.
  
The experimental research on neuroplasticity in rats' hippocampus subjected to
chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and interfered by Modified Dioscorea Pills.
Li HB, Liang WB, Zhou L
Heliyon. 6(1):e02897, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31909235
BACKGROUND: Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion (CCH) is a common, crucial and
tough problem for old people. It easily leads to Lacunar Infarction and even Vascular
Dementia (VD). Western medicine has the advantage to relieve some VD symptoms
but fails to cure it. Some classic Chinese medicines have good efficacies to treat and
delay the cerebral functional decline resulted from CCH. Among them Modified
Dioscorea Pills (MDP) has been proven to have a convincing effect in curing VD. So
far the knowledge about neuroplasticity in CCH is little known and the underlying
interfered mechanism by MDP on neuroplasticity has not yet been explored. This
study explores the changes of neuroplasticity involving neurogenesis, angiogenesis
and synaptogenesis in CCH and interfered by MDP.
METHODS: 40 male SD rats were divided into the Sham operated Group, the Model
Group and the MDP Group according to a Random Number Table. Bilateral Common
Carotid Arteries Occlusion (BCCAO) was adopted to prepare CCH models. MDP
condense decoction had been administered by gavage to rats in the MDP Group
(10g.Kg-1.d-1) for 45 days; Rats in the other two groups were accepted normal salts
as substitution with same dosage and course. Through Morris Water Maze (MWM)
test, pathological observation of hippocampus, ultrastructural study on synapse, Real
Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry detection,
the capacities of intelligence of rats, the morphological character of hippocampus
CA1 zone and the synapse associated protein and gene such as Growth Associated
Protein (GAP-43) mRNA, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) mRNA,
Microtubule-associated Protein (MAP)-2, Synaptophysin (SYP), Postsynaptic Density
protein (PSD)-95 and Micro Vessel Density (MVD) were determined. Through one-
way ANOVA the data was analyzed and when P<0.05 the result was considered
significant.
RESULTS: Compared to the Model Group, rats in the MDP Group achieved much
better behavioral performance (P<0.05); more neurons and more synapses
regenerated; the expression of SYP, PSD-95and MAP-2 up-regulated (P<0.05); The
expressions of GAP-43 mRNA and VEGF mRNA in the Model Group were higherthan those in the Sham operated Group (P<0.05), but they reached the highest in the
MDP Group (P<0.05); The count of MVD in the Sham operated Group is the lowest,
it is higher in the MDP Group and it reaches highest in the Model Group (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Some key genes promoting neuroplasticity such as GAP-43 mRNA
and VEGF mRNA remarkably up-regulated in CCH, they only boost angiogenesis but
fail to facilitate neurogenesis and synaptogenesis in CCH. However, accompanied by
furtherly up-regulation of these two key genes, MDP obviously improves
neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and temperate angiogenesis in CCH which may be
underlying its good efficacy.
Copyright © 2019 The Author(s).
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Li, H B, Liang, W B, Zhou, L
Institution
Li, H B. Emergency Department of the First People's Hospital of Guiyang, Guiyang,
Guizhou Province, People's Republic of China.   Liang, W B. Surgery Department of
Wudong Hospital of Wuhan City. Wuhan, Hubei Province, People's Republic of
China.
Zhou, L. Emergency Department of the First People's Hospital of Guiyang, Guiyang,
Guizhou Province, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
90.
  
Comparision of Vital Surgical Parameters, after Administration of Midazolam and
Dexmedetomidine for Conscious Sedation in Minor Oral Surgery.
Sivasubramani S, Pandyan DA, Ravindran C
Annals of Maxillofacial Surgery. 9(2):283-288, 2019 Jul-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31909006
AIM: The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy between midazolam and
dexmedetomidine in relation to vital parameters, sedation score, pain score, cognitive
judgment, and postoperative amnesia to the event in conscious sedation for minor
oral surgical procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A sample size of 30 patients were selected in each
group: Group M (midazolam) and Group D (dexmedetomidine).
RESULTS: The mean heart rate (HR) and systolic and diastolic blood pressure
measurements were significantly higher in Group M after the 20th min when
compared to Group D. The visual analog scale (VAS) scores of pain were not
statistically significant between the two groups during the procedure, but at the time
of discharge, statistically significant VAS scores were found between the two groups.
Nine (30%) patients in Group D and 21 (70%) patients in Group M showed cognitive
judgment impairment with the Stroop Color and Word Test at the 30th min.
CONCLUSION: The dexmedetomidine group of patients had reduced blood pressureand HR. No significant differences were noted in oxygen saturation or in respiratory
rate between the two drugs. Patients had better sedation, analgesia, lesser cognitive
impairment, and amnesia in the dexmedetomidine group.
Copyright: © 2019 Annals of Maxillofacial Surgery.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Sivasubramani, Suryahanthmihiran, Pandyan, Deepak Abraham, Ravindran, C
Institution
Sivasubramani, Suryahanthmihiran. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu,
India.   Pandyan, Deepak Abraham. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu,
India.
Ravindran, C. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Sri Ramachandra
Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
91.
  
Relatively young T1D adults using fixed doses of insulin have higher diabetes
distress levels in a sample of patients from a Brazilian tertiary hospital.
Silveira MSVM, Bovi TG, Pavin EJ
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome. 11:104, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31890038
BACKGROUND: Elevated rates of anxiety and depressive symptoms in Type 1
Diabetes patients (T1D) and high rates of diabetes-specific distress (DD) have been
shown. Several factors may be responsible for increase the DD levels such as age,
life changes, lack of familiar support, education, insulin regimens (IRs) and chronic
complications. The goals of this study were: 1-to compare DD levels, anxiety and
depressive symptoms according to age (< and >= 25 years old), 2-to evaluate the
association between DD levels, anxiety and depressive symptoms and IRs, and 3-to
evaluate the association between DD levels, anxiety and depressive symptoms and
chronic complications.
METHODS: In a cross-sectional study, T1D patients receiving outpatient care at
Unicamp tertiary hospital were included. Inclusion criteria were age at least 18 years
old and diagnosis of T1D for 6 months. Exclusion criteria were cognitive impairment,
major psychiatric disorders, severe diabetes-related complications, and pregnancy.
Depressive symptoms were evaluated by the depression subscale of the Hospital
Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD-D) and the anxiety symptoms by the anxiety
subscale of the same instrument (HAD-A). DDS scale assessed DD. Glycemic
control was evaluated by HbA1C. The latest lipid panel results were recorded and
IRs and chronic complications were obtained through chart review.
RESULTS: Of all 70 patients, 70% were younger than 25 years old. No differenceswere found between two groups according to gender, education, and income (p =
0.39, p = 0.87, and p = 0.52, respectively). HbA1c mean was 10% in both groups (p
= 0.15). Older patients had higher levels of total DD and physician DD than younger
(p = 0.0048 and p = 0.0413; respectively). Total DD and DD on subscales 1 and 2
were higher in patients using fixed doses of insulin compared to variable doses
according to carbohydrates count (p = 0.0392, p = 0.0383 and p = 0.0043,
respectively). No differences were found between anxiety and depressive symptoms
and age and IRs. Similarly, no differences were found among DD levels, anxiety and
depressive symptoms in patients with and without chronic complications.
CONCLUSIONS: When providing education and care for T1D patients, health
providers should consider age, patient's developmental stage, with its related
demands and the burden of insulin regimen.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2019.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Silveira, M S V M, Bovi, T G, Pavin, E J
Institution
Silveira, M S V M. Internal Medicine Postgraduate Program, Faculty of Medical
Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.   Bovi, T G. Internal Medicine Postgraduate
Program, Faculty of Medical Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.
Pavin, E J. Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of
Medical Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
92.
  
The effectiveness of cognitive training on improving cognitive function and sleep
quality in community-dwelling elderly in Iran.
Keramtinejad M, Azadi A, Taghinejad H, Khorshidi A
Sleep Science. 12(2):88-93, 2019 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879540
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Given the ever-increasing of the older adults population
and in order to achieve healthy and active ageing goals and improvement in the
cognitive function and sleep quality in older adult, this study aimed to evaluate the
effect of cognitive training program on improving cognitive function and ageing-
related sleep quality in community-dwelling elderly in Iran, in 2018.
METHODS: This was an experimental study. The sample comprised 420 older adults
who were a member of the comprehensive health center in one of the southern cities
of Iran. 164 had a cognitive problem and sleep disorder, of whom 108 were selected
by the available method and based on inclusion criteria. Participants were randomly
allocated to an experimental group (n=54) and a control group (n=54). Experimental
group samples were undergoing the intervention for two months. Data were collected
using MMSE questionnaire, Pittsburgh sleep quality, insomnia severity index andClinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR). Data were collected one month before-and-
after the intervention. Data were analyzed using SPSS software.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the mean score of cognitive
function and sleep quality in both the intervention group and the control group before
the intervention (p>0.05). At the post-test, the mean (SD) of elderly adults' cognitive
function in the intervention and control groups were 2.7 (1.3) and 3.44 (1.7),
respectively (p=0.017). Moreover, the mean (SD) of sleep quality in older adults in
the intervention and the control group was 6.76 (2.3) and 9.25 (2.36), respectively
(p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Given the obtained results in the current study the cognitive training
promotes cognitive function and sleep quality in older adults. Therefore, since this
program is effective, low-cost and applicable, it can be used to improve cognitive
function and sleep disorder in the older adult population.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Keramtinejad, Maryam, Azadi, Arman, Taghinejad, Hamid, Khorshidi, Ali
Institution
Keramtinejad, Maryam. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department -
Ilam - Ilam - Iran.   Keramtinejad, Maryam. Ilam University of Medical sciences,
Student research committee - Ilam - Ilam - Iran.
Azadi, Arman. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department - Ilam - Ilam
- Iran.
Taghinejad, Hamid. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department - Ilam -
Ilam - Iran.
Khorshidi, Ali. Ilam University of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine - Ilam - Ilam -
Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
93.
  
Effect of psychotic symptoms on cognitive impairment in patients with bipolar
disorder.
Achalia RM, Nagendra B, Achalia G, Chopade M, Sable A, Venkatasubramanian G,
Rao NP
Industrial Psychiatry Journal. 28(1):115-122, 2019 Jan-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879457
BACKGROUND: A considerable proportion of patients with bipolar disorder (BD)
have psychotic symptoms during the illness. This subset of BD due to its genetic
susceptibility and family segregation has considerable overlap with schizophrenia.
However, the extent to which BD patients with psychotic symptoms and without
psychotic symptoms differ on neurocognitive functions is still not completely clear.
AIM: The aim of this study was to examine the neurocognitive functions in BD
patients with psychotic symptoms and BD without psychotic symptoms in comparisonwith healthy volunteers (HVs).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty patients with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition BD (16 with psychotic symptoms) and thirty age-
and sex-matched HVs were recruited in the study. Clinical severity was assessed
using structured rating scales. The presence of psychotic symptoms was assessed
using the Lifetime Dimensions of Psychosis Scale (LDPS). All patients underwent
tests, namely continuous performance test, Stroop Word-Color interference test, and
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, to measure executive functions. Differences between
groups were examined using analysis of covariance with age and sex as covariates.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference between groups on the performance of
all the three tests, with patients performing poorer than HVs. While the HVs differed
from both BD with psychotic symptoms and without psychotic symptoms, there was
no difference between BD patients with and without psychotic symptoms. There was
no significant correlation between LDPS score and scores on neurocognitive tests.
CONCLUSION: The study findings, at least with respect to cognitive function,
suggest that BD with psychotic symptoms may not be a categorically distinct subtype
of BD. Cognitive functions need to be assessed in all patients with BD, regardless of
psychotic symptoms, and remediation interventions need to be provided.
Copyright: © 2019 Industrial Psychiatry Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh, Nagendra, Bhargavi, Achalia, Garimaa, Chopade,
Mahesh, Sable, Abhijit, Venkatasubramanian, Ganesan, Rao, Naren P
Institution
Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College,
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.   Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh. Achalia
Neuropsychiatry Clinic, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Nagendra, Bhargavi. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health
and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Achalia, Garimaa. Achalia Neuropsychiatry Clinic, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Chopade, Mahesh. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College,
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Sable, Abhijit. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College, Aurangabad,
Maharashtra, India.
Venkatasubramanian, Ganesan. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of
Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Rao, Naren P. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
94.
  
Psychiatric morbidity, cognitive dysfunction and quality of life in drug-naive patients
with Parkinson's disease: A comparative study.Dhar SS, Jeenger J, Singroha V, Sharma M, Mathur DM
Industrial Psychiatry Journal. 28(1):13-18, 2019 Jan-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879441
BACKGROUND: To better understand the psychiatric disorders and cognition in
Parkinson's disease (PD) and its impact on quality of life (QoL), patients need to be
studied soon after diagnosis, before initiation of dopamine replacement therapy.
AIM: This study aims to compare the nature and frequency of psychiatric morbidity,
cognitive dysfunction, and quality of life in drug-naive patients with PD and healthy
controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cross-sectional, comparative study was
conducted in tertiary care center. Fifty drug-naive PD patients and fifty healthy
controls were included and assessed on Modified Hoehn and Yahr scale, PD
Questionnaire 8, Kolkata cognitive screening battery, General Health Questionnaire-
12, and Hamilton Anxiety and Depression Rating Scale (HAM-A and HAM-D).
RESULTS: The mean scores of HAM-A and HAM-D of patients with PD were
significantly higher than that of the comparison group. The patients with PD had
statistically significant impairment in verbal fluency, Mini-Mental State Examination,
calculation, memory immediate recall, visuoconstructional ability, and memory
(delayed recall and recognition) in comparison to patients without PD. No statistically
significant difference was observed with respect to object naming between the two
groups.
CONCLUSION: QoL of a PD patient is adversely affected by both the motor and
nonmotor symptoms of the disease such as depression, anxiety, apathy, sleep
disturbances, and cognitive impairment. The link between nonmotor symptoms and
reduced QoL has important implications for the management of PD because the
nonmotor symptoms often appear before patients are given anti-parkinsonian
therapy. Screening of nonmotor symptoms in early stage of disease will decrease the
morbidity and mortality and improve the QoL.
Copyright: © 2019 Industrial Psychiatry Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Dhar, Subhendu Shekhar, Jeenger, Jitendra, Singroha, Vikas, Sharma, Manu,
Mathur, Devendra Mohan
Institution
Dhar, Subhendu Shekhar. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and
Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.   Jeenger, Jitendra. Department of Psychiatry,
Geetanjali Medical College and Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Singroha, Vikas. Department of Psychiatry, Saheed Hasan Khan Mewati
Government Medical College, Nuh, Haryana, India.
Sharma, Manu. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and Hospital,
Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Mathur, Devendra Mohan. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and
Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
95.
  
Comparative Study of Cognitive Function Between Treatment-Resistant Depressive
Patients and First-Episode Depressive Patients.
Rao D, Xu G, Lu Z, Liang H, Lin K, Tang M
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3411-3417, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31849475
OBJECTIVE: Despite reports of cognitive dysfunction during the acute phase of
depression, there is a lack of studies in patients with treatment-resistant depression
(TRD). The aim of this study was to investigate the cognitive function profile of TRD
and compare cognitive dysfunction between subjects with TRD and first-episode
depression.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 31 patients with TRD and 53 with
first-episode depression. Cognitive function was assessed by a series of
neuropsychological tools such as the verbal fluency test, Modified Wisconsin Card
Sorting Test (M-WCST), Tower of Hanoi test, Chinese-revision of the Wechsler Adult
Intelligence Scale (WAIS-RC), and Trail Making Test A and B.
RESULTS: There were no significant demographic differences between the TRD,
first-episode depression, and normal control groups (gender, age, years of
education). The full-scale, verbal, and performance intelligence quotients measured
with the WAIS-RC were also not significantly different (p>0.05). The normal group
scores were all significantly better than TRD and first-episode depression, and the
TRD group performed significantly worse than subjects with first-episode depression
on Trail Making Test B, two WCST subscales, and the profile score of the Tower of
Hanoi test (all p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Patients with depression exhibited global impairments in cognitive
function, and these were more common in TRD. Poor executive function may play an
important role in TRD.
Copyright © 2019 Rao et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Rao, Dongping; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7629-9879   Lu, Zenghong;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1565-9708 
Authors Full Name
Rao, Dongping, Xu, Guiyun, Lu, Zenghong, Liang, Huiwei, Lin, Kangguang, Tang,
Muni
Institution
Rao, Dongping. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of
Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's
Republic of China.   Xu, Guiyun. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain
Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou,
People's Republic of China.
Lu, Zenghong. The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical University, Jiangxi,
People's Republic of China.
Liang, Huiwei. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of Guangzhou
Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's Republic of
China.
Lin, Kangguang. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of
Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's
Republic of China.
Tang, Muni. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of GuangzhouMedical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's Republic of
China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
96.
  
Discourse in aging: Narrative and Persuasive.
Babaei Z, Ghayoumi-Anaraki Z, Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari B
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 13(4):444-449, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31844499
The growth in the elderly population has posed a social, economic and health
challenge for the twenty-first century.
OBJECTIVE: Aging is often characterized by changes in cognitive functions which
affect the receptive and expressive capabilities of language. Since language plays a
significant role in human life, we evaluate the existence of age-related differences in
narrative and persuasive discourses.
METHODS: The narrative discourse of 91 adults and persuasive discourse of 92
adults,aged from 19 to 75 years and stratified into four age groups,were examined.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference between coherence in the
elderly group and each of the other three age groups for both types of discourse.
There was also a significant difference for the cohesion variable between the elderly
and the first age group for narrative discourse only.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrate that discourse is influenced by
aging and type (genre) of discourse task. Therefore, it is essential for clinicians to
take into account the linguistic needs of elderly and incorporate these into their
clinical programs. Also, this finding can help clinicians to distinguish between
discourses of normal aging and other neurologic disorders (for example dementia,
right hemisphere damage, aphasia).
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8733-1392 
Authors Full Name
Babaei, Zahra, Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra, Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari, Behrooz
Institution
Babaei, Zahra. MSc, Department of Speech Therapy, University of Social Welfare
and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra.
PhD,Department of Speech Therapy, School of Paramedical Sciences, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari, Behrooz. PhD, Department of Performing Arts, University of
Tehran, Tehran, IR Iran.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O aumento da populacao idosa colocou um desafio social, economico e de saudepara o seculo XXI.OBJETIVO: O envelhecimento e frequentemente caracterizado
pela presenca de alteracoes nas funcoes cognitivas que afetam as capacidades
receptivas e expressivas da linguagem. Como a linguagem desempenha um papel
significativo na vida humana, avaliamos a existencia de diferencas relacionadas a
idade nos discursos narrativos e persuasivos.METODOS: O discurso narrativo de 91
adultos e o discurso persuasivo de 92 adultos com idade entre 19 e 75 anos,
divididos em quatro faixas etarias, foram examinados.RESULTADOS: Existe uma
diferenca estatisticamente significativa entre a coerencia no grupo de
envelhecimento e cada um dos outros tres grupos nos dois tipos de discursos. Existe
tambem uma diferenca significativa para a variavel coesao entre idosos e a primeira
faixa etaria apenas no discurso narrativo.CONCLUSAO: Os resultados deste estudo
demonstram que o discurso e influenciado pelo envelhecimento e tipo da tarefa
discursiva. Portanto, e essencial que os medicos levem em consideracao as
necessidades linguisticas dos idosos e as incorporem em seus programas clinicos.
Alem disso, esses resultados ajudam os medicos a distinguir entre discursos de
envelhecimento normal e outros disturbios neurologicos (por exemplo, demencia,
lesoes do hemisferio direito, afasia).
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
97.
  
Cognitive performance of children with spinal muscular atrophy: A systematic review.
 
Polido GJ, de Miranda MMV, Carvas N, Mendonca RH, Caromano FA, Reed UC,
Zanoteli E, Voos MC
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 13(4):436-443, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31844498
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is genetic and progressive, caused by large bi-allelic
deletions in the SMN1 gene, or the association of a large deletion and a null variant.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the evidence about cognitive outcomes in spinal muscular
atrophy (SMA).
METHODS: Searches on the PUBMED/Medline, Web of Knowledge and Scielo
databases retrieved 26 studies (1989 to 2019, descriptors "spinal muscular atrophy"
and "cognition"). Nine studies were selected according to the eligibility criteria: (1)
cognition tested in individuals with SMA; (2) written in English or Spanish. The Risk
of Bias in Non-Randomized Studies of Interventions was used to describe design,
bias, participants, evaluation protocol and main findings. This study was registered
on the International prospective register of systematic reviews (PROSPERO).
RESULTS: Three studies described normal cognition. In another three studies,
cognitive outcomes were above average. Cognitive impairment was found in three
studies. Poor cognitive performance was more frequently reported in studies that
were recent, included children with SMA type I and that employed visual/auditory
attention and executive function tests. Protocols and cognitive domains varied,
precluding metanalysis.
CONCLUSION: The severity of motor impairment may be related to cognitiveoutcomes: studies that included a higher number/percentage of children with SMA
type I found cognitive impairment. The establishment of gold-standard protocols is
necessary. Further studies should compare the cognitive outcomes of subjects with
SMA types I to IV.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Voos, Mariana Callil; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6252-7287 
Authors Full Name
Polido, Graziela Jorge, de Miranda, Mariana Mangini Vaz, Carvas, Nelson,
Mendonca, Rodrigo de Holanda, Caromano, Fatima Aparecida, Reed, Umbertina
Conti, Zanoteli, Edmar, Voos, Mariana Callil
Institution
Polido, Graziela Jorge. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.   de Miranda,
Mariana Mangini Vaz. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Carvas, Nelson. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Saude do Instituto de
Assistencia Medica ao Servidor Publico Estadual de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Mendonca, Rodrigo de Holanda. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de
Neurologia Clinica, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Caromano, Fatima Aparecida. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da
Reabilitacao, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Reed, Umbertina Conti. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de Neurologia
Clinica, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Zanoteli, Edmar. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de Neurologia Clinica,
Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Voos, Mariana Callil. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
A atrofia muscular espinhal (SMA) e genetica e progressiva, causada por grandes
delecoes bi-alelicas no gene SMN1, ou pela associacao de uma grande delecao e
uma variante nula.OBJETIVO: Avaliar as evidencias sobre o desempenho cognitivo
na atrofia muscular espinhal (AME).METODOS: Pesquisas nas bases de dados
PUBMED/ Medline, Web of Knowledge e Scielo localizaram 26 estudos (1989 a
2019, descritores "atrofia muscular espinhal" e "cognicao"). Nove estudos foram
selecionados de acordo com os criterios de elegibilidade: (1) testaram a cognicao
em pessoas com AME; (2) escritos em ingles/espanhol. A avaliacao do risco de vies
em estudos com intervencoes nao-randomizadas foi utilizada para descrever o
desenho experimental, vies, amostra, protocolo de avaliacao e principais achados.
Este estudo foi aprovado no Registro Internacional Prospectivo de Revisoes
Sistematicas (PROSPERO).RESULTADOS: Em tres estudos, foi registrado que a
cognicao estava preservada. Em tres estudos, o desempenho cognitivo estava
acima da media. O comprometimento cognitivo foi encontrado em tres estudos.
Desempenho cognitivo pobre foi mais frequentemente relatado em estudos recentes,
estudos que incluiram criancas com AME tipo I e estudos que incluiram atencao
visual/auditiva e testes de funcao executiva. Protocolos e dominios cognitivos
variaram muito, portanto nao foi possivel a realizacao de metanalise.CONCLUSAO:
A gravidade do comprometimento motor pode estar relacionada ao desempenho
cognitivo: estudos que incluiram maior numero/porcentagem de criancas com AME
tipo I encontraram alteracoes no desempenho cognitivo. O estabelecimento de
protocolos padrao-ouro e necessario. Novos estudos devem comparar o
desempenho cognitivo de pessoas com AME tipos I a IV, ou seja, com diferencas no
prognostico e no desempenho motor.
Language: PortugueseYear of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
98.
  
Traditional Chinese Medicine Shenmayizhi Decoction Ameliorates Memory And
Cognitive Impairment Induced By Scopolamine Via Preventing Hippocampal
Cholinergic Dysfunction In Rats.
Wu Q, Cao Y, Liu M, Liu F, Brantner AH, Yang Y, Wei Y, Zhou Y, Wang Z, Ma L,
Wang F, Pei H, Li H
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3167-3176, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31814724
PURPOSE: Clinical trials have illustrated that Shenmayizhi decoction (SMYZ) could
improve the cognitive functions in patients with dementia. However, the mechanism
needs to be explored.
METHODS: Fifty adult male rats (Wistar strain) were divided into five groups equally
and randomly, including control, model, and SMYZ of low dose, medium dose and
high dose. Rats in each group received a daily gavage of respective treatment. Rats
in control and model group were administrated by the same volume of distilled water.
Memory impairment was induced by intraperitoneal administration of scopolamine
(0.7 mg/kg) for 5 continuous days. Four weeks later, Morris water maze (MWM) was
performed to evaluate the spatial memory in all rats. Then, rats were sacrificed and
the hippocampus was removed for further tests. Furthermore, Western blot analysis
was employed to assess the levels of acetylcholine M1 receptor (M1), acetylcholine
M2 receptor (M2), acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and cholineacetyltransferase (ChAT).
AChE and ChAT activities were determined.
RESULTS: The SMYZ decoction significantly improved behavioral performance of
rats in high dose. The SMYZ decoction in three doses exhibited anti-
acetylcholinesterase activity. In addition, a high dose of SMYZ promoted ChAT
activity. Moreover, a high dose of SMYZ increased the level of ChAT and declined
the level of AChE assessed by Western blotting. Besides, an increased level of M1
receptor was found after treatment.
CONCLUSION: Shenmayizhi decoction could mitigate scopolamine-induced
cognitive deficits through the preventative effect on cholinergic system dysfunction.
Copyright © 2019 Wu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Wu, Qiong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1653-3683   Cao, Yu; ORCID:
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1211-1122 
Liu, Meixia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3277-8004 
Brantner, Adelheid H; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7812-9291 
Yang, Yang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0536-8416 
Wang, Feixue; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3800-5160 
Li, Hao; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8502-2556 Authors Full Name
Wu, Qiong, Cao, Yu, Liu, Meixia, Liu, Fang, Brantner, Adelheid H, Yang, Yang, Wei,
Yun, Zhou, Yu, Wang, Zhiyong, Ma, Lina, Wang, Feixue, Pei, Hui, Li, Hao
Institution
Wu, Qiong. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.   Wu, Qiong.
Department of Ophthalmology, Dongfang Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing 100078, People's Republic of China.
Cao, Yu. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Liu, Meixia. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Liu, Fang. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Brantner, Adelheid H. Department of Pharmacognosy, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
Yang, Yang. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Wei, Yun. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Zhou, Yu. Department of Polymer Chemistry, Zernike Institute for Advanced
Materials, Groningen 9747 AG, The Netherlands.
Wang, Zhiyong. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Ma, Lina. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Wang, Feixue. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Pei, Hui. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Li, Hao. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
99.
  
Reversion From Mild Cognitive Impairment To Normal Cognition: False-Positive Error
Or True Restoration Thanks To Cognitive Control Ability?.
Chung JY, Yoon HJ, Kim H, Choi KY, Lee JJ, Lee KH, Seo EH
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3021-3032, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31749620
PURPOSE: Relatively little attention has been paid to the meaning of reversion from
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to cognitively normal (CN), compared to MCI
progression studies. The purpose of the study was to investigate the characteristics
contributing to reversion from MCI to CN and to identify the associated factors with
such reversion.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively identified 200 individuals who
initially diagnosed as MCI and completed the second visit from the National
Research Center for Dementia (NRCD) registry in Korea. Participants underwent
comprehensive clinical and neuropsychological assessments. Factors associated
with reversion were examined by a independent-samples t-test, chi2 test, and logistic
regression. Longitudinal change was examined by a repeated measures analysis of
variance (rANOVA).
RESULTS: Based on the second assessment, 78 (39%) individuals were found to
have reverted to CN (rMCI) and 118 (59%) remained with MCI (sMCI). Four (2%)
progressed to Alzheimer's disease dementia and they were excluded from further
analysis. Over a wide range of socio-demographic, clinical, and neuropsychological
variables, group difference was significant only in neuropsychological tests of
cognitive control. Both groups showed improvement in several neuropsychological
tests, implying a practice effect, but the rMCI group showed greater improvement.
CONCLUSION: Reversion from MCI to CN might not be a false-positive error but a
true recovery from cognitive impairment. Our results suggest that cognitive control
ability may be a characteristic favorable for the restoration of cognitive function.
Therefore, assessment of cognitive control might facilitate the development of
appropriate interventions for MCI as well as prognosis evaluation.
Copyright © 2019 Chung et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Yoon, Hyung-Jun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3087-8853   Kim, Hoowon;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5973-0559 
Lee, Kun Ho; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4144-8162 
Authors Full Name
Chung, Ji-Yeon, Yoon, Hyung-Jun, Kim, Hoowon, Choi, Kyu Yeong, Lee, Jang Jae,
Lee, Kun Ho, Seo, Eun Hyun
Institution
Chung, Ji-Yeon. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.   Chung, Ji-Yeon. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine,
Chosun University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Yoon, Hyung-Jun. Department of Neuropsychiatry, College of Medicine, Chosun
University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Kim, Hoowon. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University, Gwangju,
Korea.
Kim, Hoowon. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chosun
University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Choi, Kyu Yeong. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Jang Jae. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University, Gwangju,
Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. Department of Biomedical Science, College of Natural Sciences,
Chosun University, Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain
Research Institute, Daegu, Korea.
Seo, Eun Hyun. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Seo, Eun Hyun. Department of Premedical Science, College of Medicine, Chosun
University, Gwangju, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
100.
  
Antibody Negative Autoimmune Encephalitis- Does it Differ from Definite One?.
Pradhan S, Das A, Das A, Mulmuley M
Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology. 22(4):401-408, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31736559
CONTEXT: Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) is an emerging cause of non-infective
encephalitis, presentations of which vary widely. Traditionally the diagnosis of AE is
based on detection of antibodies in a patient with clinical picture suggestive of AE.
AIM: To evaluate the clinical characteristics and response to immunotherapy in
patients with antibody negative autoimmune encephalitis and to compare them with
definite cases.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: A prospective follow-up study was done in patients
presenting with presumptive symptoms of AE from January 2017 to January 2019.
The study was done in a tertiary care institute of Northern India.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Demographic and clinical parameters were noted and
relevant investigations for management were done according to well-defined
protocol. The patients were treated with immunomodulatory therapy in the form of
steroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg). They were followed up for
treatment response and relapse at 2 monthly intervals.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: The data was expressed as either proportions or
mean/median. Chi-square test/Independent T test was used to compare antibody
positive and antibody negative group.
RESULTS: Out of 31 patients with presumptive AE, 16 patients tested positive for
autoimmune antibodies (definite AE). Incidences of seizure, behavioral abnormalities,
dementia and altered sensorium were similar between the 2 groups (p > 0.05).
Complete or partial response was seen in all treated patients in both groups with no
significant difference (p 0.716). CSF protein concentration and cellularity were higher
in the definite group although only high protein concentration could reach statistical
significance (p 0.002). Malignancy could be confirmed after extensive search in 2 out
of 16 patients with definite AE and in 1 out of 15 antibody negative AE patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical presentation of antibody negative cases does not differ
significantly from definite ones. Since treatment response is also similar in both the
groups, starting immunotherapy in a patient presenting with presumptive symptoms
of AE, while ruling out other common mimickers, seems to be the need of the hour in
the management of this evolving entity.
Copyright: © 2006 - 2019 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Pradhan, Sunil, Das, Animesh, Das, Ananya, Mulmuley, Madhura
Institution
Pradhan, Sunil. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.   Das, Animesh.
Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences,Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Das, Ananya. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Mulmuley, Madhura. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute
of Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.
  
Nurse-Led Computerized Cognitive Training for Mild Cognitive Impairment: A
Preliminary Study.
Oh MW, Ki YJ, Jeon BH, Kim SY, Oh Y, Yoo S, Cho A, Seo JH, Lee GJ
Rehabilitation Nursing Journal.  2020 04 15.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32304482
PURPOSE: This preliminary study aimed to compare the outcomes of an
occupational therapist-led and a nurse-led computerized cognitive training (CCT) for
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in older adults.
DESIGN: A single-blind randomized controlled trial was performed.
METHODS: Participants 65 years of age and older with MCI were randomly assigned
to a group led by an occupational therapist or by a nurse. Both groups received CCT
for 4 weeks.
FINDINGS: Six participants in the occupational therapist-led group and nine in the
nurse-led group completed CCT. The nurse-led group showed significant
improvement in scores on the Seoul Verbal Learning Test-Elderly's version
immediate recall scores (p = .030) and the Korean-Boston Naming Test (p = .012).
CONCLUSIONS: Nurse-led CCT demonstrated improvement in some language and
memory areas in older adults with MCI.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study supports the idea of educating nurses to use a
CCT program for treating older adults with MCI to improve their cognitive function.
Version ID
1
Status
Publisher
Authors Full Name
Oh, Min Woo, Ki, Young Jin, Jeon, Byoung Hyun, Kim, Si Yeon, Oh, Youngmin, Yoo,
Suwon, Cho, Aeri, Seo, Joo Han, Lee, Goo Joo
Institution
Oh, Min Woo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.   Oh, Min Woo. Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine,
Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Ki, Young Jin. CNC Yullyang Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Jeon, Byoung Hyun. CNC Yullyang Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Si Yeon. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Oh, Youngmin. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Yoo, Suwon. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Cho, Aeri. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Seo, Joo Han. M3 Solution Co., Ltd, Daegu-si, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Goo Joo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
Hospital, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Goo Joo. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Chungbuk National University
College of Medicine, Cheongju-si, Republic of Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
2.
  
Shenqi Xingnao Granules ameliorates cognitive impairments and Alzheimer's
disease-like pathologies in APP/PS1 mouse model.
Yang CC, Jia XY, Zhang L, Li YL, Zhang ZJ, Li L, Zhang L
Chinese Herbal Medicines. 12(4):421-429, 2020 Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 36120170
Objective: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is along with cognitive decline due to amyloid-
beta (Abeta) plaques, tau hyperphosphorylation, and neuron loss. Shenqi Xingnao
Granules (SQXN), a traditional Chinese medicine, significantly ameliorated the
cognitive function and daily living abilities of patients with AD. However, till date, no
study has investigated the mechanism of action of SQXN on AD. The present study
aimed to verify the effects of SQXN treatment on cognitive impairments and AD-like
pathologies in APP/PS1 mice.
Methods: Four-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic (Tg) mice were randomly divided into
a model group and SQXN-treated (3.5, 7, 14 g/kg per day) groups. Learning-memory
abilities were determined by Morris water maze and object recognition test. All mice
were sacrificed and the brain samples were collected after 75 d. The soluble Abeta
contents were detected by Elisa kit; The levels of expression of NeuN, APP,
phosphorylated tau and related protein were measured by Western blotting; The
inflammation factors were detected by the proinflammatory panel kit.
Results: Four-month-old APP/PS1 mice were administered SQXN by oral gavage for
2.5 months. Using the Morris water maze tests and Novel object recognition, we
found that SQXN restored behavioral deficits in the experimental group of Tg mice
when compared with the controls. SQXN also inhibited neuronal loss (NeuN marker).
SQXN treatment decreased soluble Abeta42 through inhibiting the expression of
sAPPbeta and BACE-1 without regulating full-length amyloid precursor protein (FL
APP). Insulin degrading enzyme (IDE), the Abeta degrading enzyme, were increased
by SQXN. In addition, SQXN reduced hyperphosphorylated tau protein levels and
prevented excessive activation of p-GSK-3beta in the brain of APP/PS1 mice.
Compared with APP/PS1 transgenic negative mice, IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4,
IL-5, IL-6, IL-12p70, KC/GRO and TNF-alpha were not obviously changed in the
brain of 6.5-month-old APP/PS1 transgenic (Tg) mice. However, SQXN could
inhibited the expression of IL-2.
Conclusion: These results demonstrate that SQXN ameliorates the cognitive
impairments in APP/PS1 mice. The possible mechanisms involve its inhibition of
neuronal loss, soluble Abeta deposition, tau hyperphosphorylation and inflammation.
Copyright © 2020 Tianjin Press of Chinese Herbal Medicines. Published by
ELSEVIER B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yang, Cui-Cui, Jia, Xiao-Yu, Zhang, Li, Li, Ya-Li, Zhang, Zhan-Jun, Li, Lin, Zhang,
Lan
InstitutionYang, Cui-Cui. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical
University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center
for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry
of Education, Beijing 100053, China.   Jia, Xiao-Yu. Department of Pharmacy,
Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders,
Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for
Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Li. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Li, Ya-Li. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Zhan-Jun. State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning &
IDG/McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University, Beijing
100875, China.
Zhang, Zhan-Jun. BABRI Centre, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China.
Li, Lin. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical University,
Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center for Nerve
System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry of
Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Zhang, Lan. Department of Pharmacy, Xuanwu Hospital of Capital Medical
University, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing Engineering Research Center
for Nerve System Drugs, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative Diseases of Ministry
of Education, Beijing 100053, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
3.
  
Psychological treatments for people with epilepsy. [Review]
Michaelis R, Tang V, Nevitt SJ, Wagner JL, Modi AC, LaFrance WC Jr, Goldstein LH,
Gandy M, Bresnahan R, Valente K, Donald KA, Reuber M
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 8:CD012081, 2020 Sep 07.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 35653266
BACKGROUND: Given the significant impact epilepsy may have on the health-
related quality of life (HRQOL) of individuals with epilepsy and their families, there is
increasing clinical interest in evidence-based psychological treatments, aimed at
enhancing psychological and seizure-related outcomes for this group. This is an
updated version of the original Cochrane Review published in Issue 10, 2017.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the impact of psychological treatments for people with
epilepsy on HRQOL outcomes.
SEARCH METHODS: For this update, we searched the following databases on 12
August 2019, without language restrictions: Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS
Web), which includes randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials from theSpecialized Registers of Cochrane Review Groups including Epilepsy, the Cochrane
Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to 09
August 2019), and PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, 1887 onwards), and from PubMed,
Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the World Health Organization International Clinical
Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). We screened the references from included studies
and relevant reviews, and contacted researchers in the field for unpublished studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and
quasi-RCTs for this review. HRQOL was the main outcome. For the operational
definition of 'psychological treatments', we included a broad range of skills-based
psychological treatments and education-only interventions designed to improve
HRQOL, seizure frequency and severity, as well as psychiatric and behavioral health
comorbidities for adults and children with epilepsy. These psychological treatments
were compared to treatment as usual (TAU), an active control group (such as social
support group), or antidepressant pharmacotherapy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard methodological
procedures expected by Cochrane.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 36 completed RCTs, with a total of 3526 participants.
Of these studies, 27 investigated skills-based psychological interventions. The
remaining nine studies were education-only interventions. Six studies investigated
interventions for children and adolescents, three studies investigated interventions for
adolescents and adults, and the remaining studies investigated interventions for
adults. Based on satisfactory clinical and methodological homogeneity, we pooled
data from 11 studies (643 participants) that used the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31
(QOLIE-31) or other QOLIE inventories (such as QOLIE-89 or QOLIE-31-P)
convertible to QOLIE-31. We found significant mean changes for the QOLIE-31 total
score and six subscales (emotional well-being, energy and fatigue, overall QoL,
seizure worry, medication effects, and cognitive functioning). The mean changes in
the QOLIE-31 total score (mean improvement of 5.23 points, 95% CI 3.02 to 7.44; P
< 0.001), and the overall QoL score (mean improvement of 5.95 points, 95% CI 3.05
to 8.85; P < 0.001) exceeded the threshold of minimally important change (MIC: total
score: 4.73 points; QoL score: 5.22 points), indicating a clinically meaningful
postintervention improvement in HRQOL. We downgraded the certainty of the
evidence provided by the meta-analysis due to serious risks of bias in some of the
included studies. Consequently, these results provided moderate-certainty evidence
that psychological treatments for adults with epilepsy may enhance overall HRQOL.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Implications for practice: Skills-based psychological
interventions improve HRQOL in adults and adolescents with epilepsy. Adjunctive
use of skills-based psychological treatments for adults and adolescents with epilepsy
may provide additional benefits in HRQOL when these are incorporated into patient-
centered management. We judge the evidence to be of moderate certainty.
IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH: Investigators should strictly adhere to the
CONSORT guidelines to improve the quality of reporting on their interventions. A
thorough description of intervention protocols is necessary to ensure reproducibility.
When examining the effectiveness of psychological treatments for people with
epilepsy, the use of standardized HRQOL inventories, such as the Quality of Life in
Epilepsy Inventories (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, and QOLIE-89) would increase
comparability. Unfortunately, there is a critical gap in pediatric RCTs and RCTs
including people with epilepsy and intellectual disabilities. Finally, in order to increase
the overall quality of RCT study designs, adequate randomization with allocation
concealment and blinded outcome assessment should be pursued. As attrition is
often high in research that requires active participation, an intention-to-treat analysis
should be carried out. Treatment fidelity and treatment competence should also be
assessed. These important dimensions, which are related to 'Risk of bias'
assessment, should always be reported.
Copyright © 2020 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons,
Ltd.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Michaelis, Rosa, Tang, Venus, Nevitt, Sarah J, Wagner, Janelle L, Modi, Avani C,
LaFrance, William Curt Jr, Goldstein, Laura H, Gandy, Milena, Bresnahan, Rebecca,
Valente, Kette, Donald, Kirsten A, Reuber, Markus
Institution
Michaelis, Rosa. Department of Neurology Gemeinschaftskrankenhaus Herdecke,
University of Witten/Herdecke, Herdecke, Germany.   Tang, Venus. Division of
Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hospital Authority, Hong Kong.
Tang, Venus. Department of Clinical Psychology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hospital
Authority, Hong Kong.
Nevitt, Sarah J. Department of Biostatistics, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
Wagner, Janelle L. College of Nursing, Medical University of South Carolina,
Charleston, USA.
Modi, Avani C. Division of Behavioral Medicine and Clinical Psychology, Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine,
Cincinnati, USA.
LaFrance, William Curt Jr. Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, Brown
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
Goldstein, Laura H. Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology
and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
Gandy, Milena. Department of Psychology, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.
Bresnahan, Rebecca. Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, Institute
of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
Valente, Kette. Faculty of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo (HCFMUSP), Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
Donald, Kirsten A. Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Red Cross War
Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.
Reuber, Markus. Academic Neurology Unit, University of Sheffield, Royal
Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, UK.
Other Abstract
Publisher
:          (HRQOL)        ,                   .  2017  10         . :      HRQOL    .  :       2019 8 12
. CRS (Cochrane Register of Studies, CRS Web) , Cochrane Central Register of
Controlled Trials( ), MEDLINE(Ovid, 1946 ~ 2019 8)  PycINFO(EBSCO , 1887)
 .inicalTrials.gov   (WHO)    (ICTRP).         ,        .   :     (RCT) RCT  . HRQOL  . ' '   ,
HRQOL,                ,            .      (TAU),  ( ),    .    :        .  :  3526   36   RCT  .    27
.  9     .  .      6, .     3,       .          31(QOLIE-31)  QOLIE-31   QOLIE (QOLIE-89
QOLIE-31-P)  11 (643 )   . QOLIE-31  6  (  ,   ,  QoL,  ,   ,   )     . QOLIE-31 (5.23, 95%
CI 3.02~7.44, P < 0.001),  QoL (5.95, 95% CI 3.05~8.85, P < 0.001)        (MIC: )  .
4.73, QoL : 5.22)) HRQOL         .               .  ,         HRQOL         .  :   :          HRQOL .
             HRQOL      .      .   :               .         .       ,  (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, QOLIE-
89)    HRQOL      .          RCT RCT   .  , RCT                 .             .      . ' '         .
Language: Korean   Publisher
:       (health-related quality of life; HRQOL)  ,      ,    ,    ,  .        10, 2017 . :
HRQOL.  : 12  2019,   ,          :      (CRS Web),    -             ,            (CENTRAL)
MEDLINE (Ovid 1946 09  2019) PsycINFO (EBSCOhost 1887 ) PubMed Embase
ClinicalTrials.gov           (ICTRP)  .         .   :       (randomised controlled trials; RCTs) -
RCT     .   HRQOL .    <<  >>,         HRQoL,  (seizure)           .   , (treatment as usual;
TAU),   (   ),   -   .     :        .  : 36 RCT  , 3526     .   , 27     .  . , ,     .      ,  11 (643   )     -
31 (QOLIE-31)     QOLIE ( QOLIE-89  QOLIE-31-P)  QOLIE-31  ,    .       QOLIE-31  (
 (well-being) ,  , QoL  ,   ,    )   .     QOLIE-31 (   5.23 95% CI 3.02 7.44 P <0.001) QoL
  (   5.95 95% CI 3.05 8.85 P < 0.001)   : (MIC:  : 4.73  QoL: 5.22  ),     HRQOL .
(meta-analysis)     (bias)  ,     .  ,             HRQOL    .       :   :   , HRQOL   .
HRQOL      -   .     .    :    CONSORT         .            .       ,  HRQOL     (QOLIE-31
QOLIE-31-P QOLIE-89)     .    RCT    RCT      .  ,       , RCT              .           ,(attrition) ,   (intention-to-treat)  .       .  ,    <<   (bias)>>  ,    .
Language: Persian
Publisher
CONTEXTE: Etant donne l'impact significatif que l'epilepsie peut avoir sur la qualite
de vie liee a la sante (QVLS) des personnes epileptiques et de leurs familles, il existe
un interet clinique croissant pour les traitements psychologiques bases sur des
donnees probantes visant a ameliorer les criteres de jugement psychologiques et lies
aux crises pour ce groupe. Ceci est une version mise a jour de la revue Cochrane
originale publiee dans le numero 10, 2017.OBJECTIFS: Evaluer l'impact des
traitements psychologiques pour les personnes epileptiques sur la QVLS.
STRATEGIE DE RECHERCHE DOCUMENTAIRE: Pour cette mise a jour, nous
avons effectue des recherches dans les bases de donnees suivantes et sans
restrictions de langues jusqu'au 12 aout 2019: Le Registre Cochrane des etudes
(CRS Web), qui comprend des essais controles randomises ou quasi randomises
provenant des registres specialises des groupes de revues Cochrane, dont celui sur
l'epilepsie, le registre Cochrane des essais controles (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid,
de 1946 au 9 aout 2019) et PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, a partir de 1887), ainsi que
PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov et le Systeme d'enregistrement international des
essais cliniques (ICTRP) de l'OMS. Nous avons examine les references des etudes
incluses et des revues pertinentes, et nous avons contacte des chercheurs dans le
domaine pour des etudes non publiees. CRITERES DE SELECTION: Nous avons
pris en compte les essais controles randomises (ECR) et les quasi-ECR pour cette
revue. La QVLS en a ete le principal critere de jugement. Pour la definition
operationnelle de << traitement psychologiques >>, nous avons inclus un large
eventail de traitements psychologiques bases sur les competences, et d'interventions
educatives concues pour ameliorer la QVLS, la frequence et la gravite des crises,
ainsi que les comorbidites psychiatriques et comportementales pour les adultes et
les enfants epileptiques. Ces traitements psychologiques ont ete compares au
traitement habituel (TH), a un groupe temoin actif (tel qu'un groupe de soutien social)
ou a une pharmacotherapie antidepressive. RECUEIL ET ANALYSE DES
DONNEES: Nous avons suivi les procedures methodologiques standard definies par
Cochrane. RESULTATS PRINCIPAUX: Nous avons inclus 36 ECR termines, avec
un total de 3 526 participants. Parmi ces etudes, 27 portaient sur des interventions
psychologiques basees sur les competences. Les neuf autres etudes etaient des
interventions a caractere educatif uniquement. Six etudes ont porte sur les
interventions aupres des enfants et des adolescents, trois sur les interventions
aupres des adolescents et des adultes, et les autres sur les interventions aupres des
adultes. Sur la base d'une homogeneite clinique et methodologique satisfaisante,
nous avons mis en commun les donnees de 11 etudes (643 participants) qui ont
utilise le questionnaire sur la qualite de vie en cas d'epilepsie (QOLIE-31) ou d'autres
questionnaires QOLIE (tels que QOLIE-89 ou QOLIE-31-P) convertibles en QOLIE-
31. Nous avons constate des changements moyens significatifs pour le score total de
QOLIE-31 et pour six sous-echelles (bien-etre emotionnel, energie et fatigue, qualite
de vie globale, inquietudes liees aux crises, effets des medicaments et
fonctionnement cognitif). Les changements moyens du score total de QOLIE-31
(amelioration moyenne de 5,23 points, IC a 95 %, de 3,02 a 7,44 ; P < 0,001), et du
score global de QV (amelioration moyenne de 5,95 points, IC a 95 %, de 3,05 a 8,85
; P < 0,001) ont depasse le seuil de changement important minimal (MIC) (MIC :
score total : 4,73 points ; score de la qualite de vie: 5,22 points), ce qui indique une
amelioration cliniquement significative de la qualite de vie liee a la sante apres
l'intervention. Nous avons declasse le niveau de confiance des donnees probantes
fournies par la meta-analyse en raison de risques serieux de biais dans certaines
des etudes incluses. Par consequent, la valeur probante de ces resultats etait
moderee a propos de l'amelioration de la qualite de vie globale chez les adultes
epileptiques par les traitements psychologiques.CONCLUSIONS DES AUTEURS:
Implications pour la pratique: Les interventions psychologiques basees sur les
competences ameliorent la qualite de vie des adultes et des adolescents
epileptiques. L'utilisation complementaire de traitements psychologiques bases surles competences chez les adultes et les adolescents epileptiques pourrait apporter
des avantages supplementaires en matiere de qualite de vie liee a la sante lorsque
ceux-ci sont integres dans une gestion centree sur le patient. Nous estimons que le
niveau de confiance des donnees probantes est modere. Implications pour la
recherche: Les enqueteurs doivent se conformer strictement aux recommandations
CONSORT afin d'ameliorer la qualite des rapports sur leurs interventions. Une
description complete des protocoles d'intervention est necessaire pour assurer la
reproductibilite. Lors de l'examen de l'efficacite des traitements psychologiques pour
les personnes souffrant d'epilepsie, l'utilisation de questionnaires standardises sur la
qualite de vie, tels que les questionnaires sur la qualite de vie dans l'epilepsie
(QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P et QOLIE-89), permettrait d'accroitre la comparabilite.
Malheureusement, il existe une lacune importante dans les ECR pediatriques et les
ECR incluant les personnes souffrant d'epilepsie et de handicap intellectuel. Enfin,
afin d'ameliorer la qualite globale des plans d'etude des ECR, il convient de
poursuivre une randomisation adequate avec assignation secrete et evaluation des
criteres de jugement en aveugle. Comme le taux d'attrition est souvent eleve dans
les recherches qui necessitent une participation active, il convient de proceder a une
analyse des intentions de traitement. La fidelite au traitement et la competence en
matiere de traitement doivent egalement etre evaluees. Ces dimensions importantes,
qui sont liees a l'evaluation du << risque de biais >>, devraient toujours etre
signalees.
Language: French
Publisher
ANTECEDENTES: Debido al impacto significativo que podria tener la epilepsia sobre
la calidad de vida relacionada con la salud (CdVRS) en los individuos con epilepsia y
sus familias, hay un creciente interes clinico en los tratamientos psicologicos
basados en evidencia, dirigidos a mejorar los desenlaces psicologicos y
relacionados con las crisis para este grupo de personas. Esta es una version
actualizada de la revision Cochrane original publicada en el numero 10,
2017.OBJETIVOS: Evaluar los efectos de los tratamientos psicologicos para los
pacientes con epilepsia en los resultados de la CdVRS. METODOS DE BUSQUEDA:
Para esta actualizacion, se realizaron busquedas en las siguientes bases de datos el
12 de agosto de 2019 sin restricciones de idioma: La Cochrane Register of Studies
(CRS Web),que incluye ensayos controlados aleatorizados o cuasialeatorizados del
registro especializado de los Grupos Cochrane de Revision de Epilepsia, Cochrane
Central de Ensayos Controlados (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 a 9 de agosto
de 2019), y PsycINFO (EBSCOhost, 1887 en adelante), y de PubMed, EMBASE,
ClinicalTrials.gov y la plataforma de registros internacionales de ensayos clinicos
(ICTRP) de la Organizacion Mundial de la Salud. Se examinaron las referencias de
los estudios incluidos y las revisiones pertinentes, y se establecio contacto con los
investigadores del tema para obtener estudios no publicados. CRITERIOS DE
SELECCION: Se consideraron los ensayos controlados aleatorizados (ECA) y los
ensayos controlados cuasialeatorizados para esta revision. La CdVRS fue el
desenlace principal. Para la definicion operativa de "tratamientos psicologicos", se
incluyo un rango amplio de tratamientos psicologicos basados en habilidades e
intervenciones solo educativas disenadas para mejorar la CdVRS, la frecuencia y la
gravedad de las crisis, y las comorbilidades psiquiatricas y conductuales para los
adultos y los ninos con epilepsia. Estos tratamientos psicologicos se compararon con
el tratamiento habitual (TH), un grupo de control activo (como el grupo de apoyo
social) o la farmacoterapia antidepresiva. OBTENCION Y ANALISIS DE LOS
DATOS: Se utilizaron los procedimientos metodologicos estandares previstos por
Cochrane.RESULTADOS PRINCIPALES: Se incluyeron 36 ECA completos con
3526 participantes. De estos, 27 estudios investigaron intervenciones psicologicas
basadas en habilidades. Los nueve estudios restantes fueron intervenciones solo
educativas. Seis estudios investigaron intervenciones para ninos y adolescentes,
tres estudios investigaron intervenciones para adolescentes y adultos, y los
restantes investigaron intervenciones en adultos. De acuerdo con una
homogeneidad clinica y metodologica satisfactoria, se agruparon los datos de 11estudios (643 participantes) que utilizaron la escala para medir la calidad de vida en
la epilepsia Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31 (QOLIE-31) u otros listados QOLIE (como
el QOLIE-89 o el QOLIE-31-P) convertibles a QOLIE-31. Se encontraron cambios
medios significativos para la puntuacion total de la QOLIE-31 y seis subescalas
(bienestar emocional, energia y fatiga, CdV general, preocupacion sobre la crisis,
efectos de la medicacion y funcion cognitiva). Los cambios medios en la puntuacion
total de la QOLIE-31 (mejora media de 5,23 puntos, IC del 95%: 3,02 a 7,44; P <
0,001), y la puntuacion global de la CdV (mejora media de 5,95 puntos, IC del 95%:
3,05 a 8,85; P < 0,001) superaron el umbral de cambio minimo importante (CMI:
puntuacion total: 4,73 puntos; puntuacion de CdV: 5,22 puntos), lo que indica una
mejoria posintervencion clinicamente significativa en la CdVRS. La certeza de la
evidencia aportada por el metanalisis se redujo debido a riesgos graves de sesgo en
algunos de los estudios incluidos. En consecuencia, estos resultados aportaron
evidencia de certeza moderada de que los tratamientos psicologicos para los adultos
con epilepsia pueden mejorar la CdVRS general.CONCLUSIONES DE LOS
AUTORES: Implicaciones para la practica: Las intervenciones psicologicas basadas
en habilidades mejoran la CdVRS en adultos y adolescentes con epilepsia. El uso
adyuvante de terapias psicologicas basadas en habilidades para los adultos y
adolescentes con epilepsia podria proporcionar beneficios adicionales a la CdVRS
cuando se incorporan a un tratamiento centrado en el paciente. Se considero que la
evidencia era de certeza moderada. Implicaciones para la investigacion: Los
investigadores deben adherirse estrictamente a las guias CONSORT para mejorar la
calidad del informe sobre las intervenciones. Una descripcion minuciosa de los
protocolos de intervencion es necesaria para asegurar la reproducibilidad. Cuando
se examina la efectividad de los tratamientos psicologicos para los pacientes con
epilepsia, el uso de listados estandarizados de CdVRS (QOLIE-31, QOLIE-31-P, y
QOLIE-89) aumentaria la comparabilidad. Por desgracia, existe una laguna critica en
los ECA pediatricos y ECA que incluyen a personas con epilepsia y discapacidades
intelectuales. Finalmente, para aumentar la calidad general de los disenos de
estudio de ECA, debe aplicarse una asignacion al azar adecuada con ocultacion de
la asignacion y una evaluacion de resultados cegada. Debido a que la desercion a
menudo es alta en la investigacion que requiere la participacion activa, debe
realizarse un analisis de intencion de tratar. Tambien deben evaluarse la fidelidad al
tratamiento y la competencia del tratamiento. Estas importantes dimensiones,
relacionadas con la evaluacion del "riesgo de sesgo", deben ser siempre
comunicadas.
Language: Spanish
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
4.
  
Chinese herbal medicine Qinggongshoutao for the treatment of amnestic mild
cognitive impairment: A 52-week randomized controlled trial.
Tian J, Shi J, Wei M, Ni J, Fang Z, Gao J, Wang H, Yao H, Zhang J, Li J, Min M, Su
L, Sun X, Wang B, Wang B, Yang F, Zou Y, Hu Y, Lin Y, Xu G, Li K, Li L, Zhen H, Xu
J, Chen K, Wang Y, CHARM study group
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions. 5:441-449,2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31517031
INTRODUCTION: This randomized, double-blind trial aimed to test effect of a
Chinese herbal medicine, Qinggongshoutao (QGST) pill, on the cognition and
progression of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI).
METHODS: Patients with aMCI were randomly assigned to receive QGST, Ginkgo
biloba extract, or placebo for 52 weeks. The primary outcome measures were
progression to possible or probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and change in
Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale scores; secondary
outcome measures included assessments for cognition and function.
RESULTS: Total 350 patients were enrolled, possible or probable AD developed in
10. There were significant differences in the probability of progression to AD in the
QGST group (1.15%) compared with placebo group (10%). There was significant
difference in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale scores in
favor of QGST over the placebo group. Secondary outcome measure (Mini-Mental
State Examination) also showed benefit in QGST at end point.
DISCUSSION: In patients with aMCI, QGST showed lower AD progression rate than
placebo at 8.85%, and may have benefit on global cognition.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Tian, Jinzhou, Shi, Jing, Wei, Mingqing, Ni, Jingnian, Fang, Zhiyong, Gao, Jinyu,
Wang, Heng, Yao, Hongjun, Zhang, Jintao, Li, Juntao, Min, Min, Su, Likai, Sun,
Xiuqiao, Wang, Baoai, Wang, Baoshen, Yang, Faming, Zou, Yong, Hu, Yueqiang,
Lin, Yaming, Xu, Guangyin, Li, Kang, Li, Lei, Zhen, Hui, Xu, Jinyan, Chen, Keji,
Wang, Yongyan, CHARM study group
Institution
Tian, Jinzhou. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China.   Shi, Jing. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Wei, Mingqing. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of
Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Ni, Jingnian. Neurology Centre, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing, China.
Fang, Zhiyong. Department of Neurology, Xiangyang Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Xiangyang, Henan Province, China.
Gao, Jinyu. Department of Neurology, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China.
Wang, Heng. Department of Neurology, Tianjin Nankai Hospital, Tianjin, China.
Yao, Hongjun. Department of Neurology, Yuncheng Central Hospital, Yuncheng,
Shanxi Province, China.
Zhang, Jintao. Department of Neurology, 88th Hospital of PLA, Taian, Shandong
Province, China.
Li, Juntao. Department of Neurology, Handan Central Hospital, Handan, Hebei
Province, China.
Min, Min. Department of Neurology, Tengzhou Central People's Hospital,
Zaozhuang, Shandong Province, China.
Su, Likai. Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Hebei University,
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, China.
Sun, Xiuqiao. Department of Neurology, First Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province, China.
Wang, Baoai. Department of Neurology, Shanxi Fenyang Hospital, Lvliang, Shanxi
Province, China.
Wang, Baoshen. Department of Neurology, Luohe Hospital of Chinese Medicine,
Luohe, Henan Province, China.Yang, Faming. Department of Neurology, Third Hospital of Shanxi Medical College,
Taiyuan, Shanxi Province, China.
Zou, Yong. Department of Integrated TCM & Western Medicine, Qindao University
Medical College Affiliated Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital, Yantai, Shandong Province,
China.
Hu, Yueqiang. Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi
University of Chinese Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi Province, China.
Lin, Yaming. Department of Neurology, Yunnan Provincial Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Kunming, Yunnan Province, China.
Xu, Guangyin. Department of Neurology, The People's Hospital of Linyi, Linyi,
Shandong Province, China.
Li, Kang. Department of Health Statistics Harbin Medical University, Harbin,
Heilongjiang Province, China.
Li, Lei. Pharmaceutical Research and Clinical Evaluation Center of China Association
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Zhen, Hui. Pharmaceutical Research and Clinical Evaluation Center of China
Association of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
Xu, Jinyan. Beijing Kangpaite Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Beijing, China.
Chen, Keji. Institute of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
Wang, Yongyan. Institute of Basic Research in Clinical Medicine, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing China.
Comments
Erratum in (EIN)
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
5.
  
A pilot feasibility randomized controlled trial on combining mind-body physical
exercise, cognitive training, and nurse-led risk factor modification to reduce cognitive
decline among older adults with mild cognitive impairment in primary care.
Xu Z, Zhang D, Lee ATC, Sit RWS, Wong C, Lee EKP, Yip BHK, Tiu JYS, Lam LCW,
Wong SYS
PeerJ. 8:e9845, 2020.
[Clinical Trial]
UI: 33194354
OBJECTIVES: To examine the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of (1)
combining cognitive training, mind-body physical exercise, and nurse-led risk factor
modification (CPR), (2) nurse-led risk factor modification (RFM), and (3) health
advice (HA) on reducing cognitive decline among older adults with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI).
METHODS: It was a 3-arm open-labeled pilot randomized controlled trial in the
primary care setting in Hong Kong. Nineteen older adults with MCI were randomized
to either CPR (n = 6), RFM (n = 7), or HA (n = 6) for 6 months. The primary outcome
was the feasibility of the study. Secondary outcomes included the Alzheimer's
Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog), the Montreal Cognitive
Assessment Hong Kong version (HK-MoCA), the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR),the Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD), quality of life, depression, anxiety,
physical activity, health service utilization, and diet.
RESULTS: Nineteen out the 98 potential patients were recruited, with a recruitment
rate of 19% (95% CI [12-29]%, P = 0.243). The adherence rate of risk factor
modification was 89% (95% CI [65-98]%, P = 0.139) for CPR group and 86% (95%
CI [63-96]%, P = 0.182) for RFM group. In the CPR group, 53% (95% CI [36-70]%, P
= 0.038) of the Tai Chi exercise sessions and 54% (95% CI [37-71]%, P = 0.051) of
cognitive sessions were completed. The overall dropout rate was 11% (95% CI [2-
34]%, P = 0.456). Significant within group changes were observed in HK-MoCA in
RFM (4.50 +/- 2.59, P = 0.008), cost of health service utilization in CPR (-4000,
quartiles: -6800 to -200, P = 0.043), fish and seafood in HA (-1.10 +/- 1.02, P =
0.047), and sugar in HA (2.69 +/- 1.80, P = 0.015). Group x time interactions were
noted on HK-MoCA favoring the RFM group (P = 0.000), DAD score favoring CPR
group (P = 0.027), GAS-20 favoring CPR group (P = 0.026), number of servings of
fish and seafood (P = 0.004), and sugar (P < 0.001) ate per day.
CONCLUSIONS: In this pilot study, RFM and the multi-domain approach CPR were
feasible and had preliminary beneficial effects in older adults with MCI in primary
care setting in Hong Kong.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR1800015324).
Copyright ©2020 Xu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Xu, Zijun, Zhang, Dexing, Lee, Allen T C, Sit, Regina W S, Wong, Carmen, Lee, Eric
K P, Yip, Benjamin H K, Tiu, Jennifer Y S, Lam, Linda C W, Wong, Samuel Y S
Institution
Xu, Zijun. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of Public
Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Zhang, Dexing. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lee, Allen T C. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Sit, Regina W S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Wong, Carmen. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lee, Eric K P. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Yip, Benjamin H K. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School
of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Tiu, Jennifer Y S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School of
Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Lam, Linda C W. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Wong, Samuel Y S. Division of Family Medicine and Primary Health Care, JC School
of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
6.
  
Depression after Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: A Systematic Review. [Review]
Tang WK, Wang L, Kwok Chu Wong G, Ungvari GS, Yasuno F, Tsoi KKF, Kim JS
Journal of Stroke. 22(1):11-28, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32027789
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Depression is common and debilitating illness
accompanying many neurological disorders including non-traumatic subarachnoid
hemorrhage (SAH). The aim of this systematic review was to identify and critically
appraise all published studies that have reported the frequency, severity and time
course of depression after SAH, the factors associated with its development and the
impact of depression on patients' quality of life after SAH.
METHODS: The PubMed database was searched for studies published in English
that recruited at least 40 patients (>18 years old) after SAH who were also diagnosed
with depression.
RESULTS: Altogether 55 studies covering 6,327 patients met study entry criteria.
The frequency of depression ranged from 0% to 61.7%, with a weighted proportion of
28.1%. Depression remained common even several years after the index SAH.
Depression after SAH was associated with female sex, premorbid depression,
anxiety, substance use disorders or any psychiatric disorders, and coping styles.
Comorbid cognitive impairment, fatigue, and physical disability also increased the
risk of depression. Aneurysmal SAH and infarction may be related to depression as
well. Depression reduces the quality of life and life satisfaction in patients after SAH.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression is common after SAH and seems to persist. Further
research is needed to clarify its time course and identify the neuroendocrine and
neurochemical factors and brain circuits associated with the development of post-
SAH depression. Randomized controlled treatment trials targeting SAH-related
depression are warranted.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Tang, Wai Kwong, Wang, Lisha, Kwok Chu Wong, George, Ungvari, Gabor S,
Yasuno, Fumihiko, Tsoi, Kelvin K F, Kim, Jong S
Institution
Tang, Wai Kwong. Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, China.   Wang, Lisha. Department of Psychiatry, Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Kwok Chu Wong, George. Department of Surgery, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, China.
Ungvari, Gabor S. University of Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, Australia.
Ungvari, Gabor S. Division of Psychiatry, Medical School, University of Western
Australia, Crawley, Australia.
Yasuno, Fumihiko. Department of Psychiatry, National Center for Geriatrics and
Gerontology, Obu, Japan.
Tsoi, Kelvin K F. Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, ChineseUniversity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Tsoi, Kelvin K F. Stanley Ho Big Data Decision Analytics Research Centre, Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
Kim, Jong S. Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
7.
  
Prevalence of Obesity in India and Its Neurological Implications: A Multifactor
Analysis of a Nationwide Cross-Sectional Study.
Venkatrao M, Nagarathna R, Majumdar V, Patil SS, Rathi S, Nagendra H
Annals of Neurosciences. 27(3-4):153-161, 2020 Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34556954
BACKGROUND: India is undergoing a rapid epidemiological transition, from
underweight to overweight/obese population. Obesity is a major risk factor in type 2
diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, and is also implicated as a factor in
neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. A robust, pan-Indian estimate of
obesity is not yet available.
PURPOSE: This study estimates the pan-Indian prevalence of obesity, stratified
across nonmodifiable (age and gender) and modifiable (education and physical
activity levels) factors, and across zones and urban/rural.
METHODOLOGY: Data for 1,00,531 adults from a nationwide randomized cluster
sample survey (Niyantrita Madhumeha Bharata 2017, phase 1) were analyzed.
Obesity was determined using body mass index, and cross-tabulations were
calculated across zones, age, gender, education, physical activity, and area. To
determine statistical significance, t-tests were used. The odds of obesity within each
category of the various factors were calculated using binary logistic regression.
RESULTS: Prevalence of obesity in India is 40.3%. Zonal variations were seen as
follows: south highest at 46.51% and east lowest at 32.96%. Obesity was higher
among women than men (41.88% vs. 38.67%), urban than rural (44.17% vs.
36.08%), and over 40 than under 40 (45.81% vs. 34.58%). More education implied a
higher obesity (44.6% college vs. 38% uneducated), as did lowered physical activity
(43.71% inactive vs. 32.56% vigorously active). The odds ratio for physical activity
was 3.83, stronger than age (1.58), education (1.4), urban (1.3), and gender (1.2).
CONCLUSION: Obesity levels in India are very high, across all zones. The odds of
being obese increases with age, and is higher among women and among urban
dwellers. Obesity is the highest among aging urban men and women who are college
educated and are sedentary. Physical activity and aging are the strongest
determinants of obesity. Given the high cost of obesity in terms of type 2 diabetes,
cardiovascular diseases, and Alzheimer's disease, urgent public health measures are
necessary to reduce its impact.
Copyright © 2021 Indian Academy of Neurosciences (IAN).
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Venkatrao, Murali; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6677-045X 
Authors Full Name
Venkatrao, Murali, Nagarathna, Raghuram, Majumdar, Vijaya, Patil, Suchitra S,
Rathi, Sunanda, Nagendra, Hongasandra
Institution
Venkatrao, Murali. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University,
Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.   Nagarathna, Raghuram.
Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani,
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Majumdar, Vijaya. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Patil, Suchitra S. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Rathi, Sunanda. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University, Prashanti
Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Nagendra, Hongasandra. Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, SVYASA University,
Prashanti Kutiram, Jigani, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
8.
  
Ameliorative Effects of Different Transcranial Electrical Stimulation Paradigms on the
Novel Object Recognition Task in a Rat Model of Alzheimer Disease.
Zarifkar AH, Zarifkar A, Nami M, Rafati A, Aligholi H, Vafaee F
Galen Medical Journal. 8:e1440, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34466513
BACKGROUND: Treatment of Alzheimer as a disease that is associated with
cognitive impairment has been associated with some restrictions. Recently,
researchers have focused on non-pharmacological treatments, including non-
invasive stimulation of the brain by transcranial electrical stimulation (tES). Four main
paradigms of transcranial electrical current include transcranial direct current
stimulation (tDCS), transcranial alternative current stimulation (tACS), transcranial
random noise stimulation (tRNS), transcranial pulse current stimulation (tPCS). The
tDCS is a possible new therapeutic option for patients with cognitive impairment,
including Alzheimer disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was done on Sprague-Dawley male rats
weighing 250-270 g. to develop Alzheimer's model, the cannula was implanted
bilaterally into the hippocampus. Abeta 25-35 (5mug/ 2.5microl/day) was
microinjected bilaterally for 4 days. Then, an electrical stimulation paradigm was
applied to the animal for 6 days. Animal cognitive capacity was evaluated on day 11
and 12 by novel object recognition (NOR) test.
RESULTS: Our results showed that application of tDCS; tACS; tRNS and tPCS
reversed beta-amyloid-induced impairment (P<0.05). The tRNS Group spent total
exploration time around the objects compared to other groups (P<0.05). There wasno significant difference between the four different paradigms in discrimination ratio
and the percentage of total exploration time.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study showed that the use of multiple sessions of
different tES paradigms could improve Abeta-induced memory impairment in the
NOR test. Therefore, based on evidence, it can be expected that in addition to using
tDCS, other stimulatory paradigms may also be considered in the treatment of AD.
Copyright© 2019, Galen Medical Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarifkar, Amir Hossein, Zarifkar, Asadollah, Nami, Mohammad, Rafati, Ali, Aligholi,
Hadi, Vafaee, Farzaneh
Institution
Zarifkar, Amir Hossein. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Zarifkar, Asadollah. Department of
Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Nami, Mohammad. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Nami, Mohammad. DANA Brain Health Institute, Iranian Neuroscience Society, Fars
Chapter, Shiraz, Iran.
Rafati, Ali. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Aligholi, Hadi. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical Sciences
and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
9.
  
Effect of Cuscuta epithymum Acquainted with Risperidone on the Improvement of
Clinical Symptoms and Cognitive Impairment in Patients with Schizophrenia: A
Triple-Blind Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial.
Parvizi M, Fadai F, Khodaei-Ardakani MR, Amin G, Abdi L, Noroozi M, Ansari I
Galen Medical Journal. 8:e1334, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 34466495
BACKGROUND: Cuscuta epithymum (CE) is an established medicinal herb utilized
for treating psychosis in Persian medicine. The aim of this study was to investigate
the effect of CE combined with risperidone on the clinical symptoms and the
cognitive impairment in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this triple-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial,
the intervention group received a dose of 500 mg of CE in the form of a capsule to be
taken twice a day accompanied by an appropriate dose of risperidone. The control
group was presented with a placebo identical to that of the CE capsule plus theallocated dose of risperidone. The PANSS and SCoRS questionnaires were used to
assess the status of subjects prior to the initiation of the intervention as well as being
put to use at the end of the second, fourth, and eighth week post-intervention.
Registering and recording intel concerning positive and negative symptoms felt by
participants (PANNS), and a test to assess the cognitive impairment of the
individuals.
RESULTS: After eight weeks of treatment, all negative and positive symptoms
besides hostility and somatic concern exhibited a significant improvement in the CE
group (P <0.05). In contrast, the CE placebo group displayed no substantial
improvement in the cases of the positive, negative and general symptoms (P>0.05)
regarding cognitive impairment, after eight weeks of treatment, all symptoms were
greatly improved in the CE group (P<0.05), while the effect of the placebo on the
patients cognitive impairment remained mostly stationary (P>0.05). Consequently,
after eight weeks after the intervention, we can determine that the CE treatment has
been noticeably more effective at improving positive, negative and cognitive
symptoms of patients with schizophrenia.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrated that CE, possessing possible
antioxidant and neuroprotective properties, safely improved the positive and negative
symptoms, and cognitive impairment of patients with schizophrenia.
Copyright© 2019, Galen Medical Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Parvizi, Maedeh, Fadai, Farbod, Khodaei-Ardakani, Moahammad Reza, Amin,
Gholamreza, Abdi, Leila, Noroozi, Mehdi, Ansari, Iman
Institution
Parvizi, Maedeh. Department of Psychiatry, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Fadai, Farbod. Department of Psychiatry,
University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Khodaei-Ardakani, Moahammad Reza. Department of Psychiatry, University of
Social Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Amin, Gholamreza. Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Abdi, Leila. Department of Traditional Medicine, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Noroozi, Mehdi. Department of Psychiatry, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Ansari, Iman. Medical Students Research Committee, Shahed University, Tehran,
Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
10.
  
Dalteparin as a Novel Therapeutic Agent to Prevent Diabetic Encephalopathy by
Targeting Oxidative Stress and Inflammation.Zeinivand M, Nahavandi A, Baluchnejadmojarad T, Roghani M, Golab F
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(6):795-804, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33850616
INTRODUCTION: Hepcidin is the main modulator of systemic iron metabolism, and
its role in the brain has been clarified recently. Studies have shown that hepcidin
plays an important role in neuronal iron load and inflammation. This issue is of
significance because neuronal iron load and inflammation are pathophysiological
processes that are highly linked to neurodegeneration. Moreover, the activity of
hepcidin has recently been manipulated to recover the neuronal impairment caused
by brain inflammation in animal models.
METHODS: Streptozotocin (STZ) was used to induce type 1 diabetes. Male Wistar
rats (n = 40) with a weight range of 200-250 g were divided into control, diabetic,
diabetic + insulin, and diabetic + dalteparin groups. Dalteparin (100 mg/kg IP) and
insulin (100 mg/kg SC) were administered for 8 weeks. At the end of the experiment,
Y-maze and passive avoidance tasks were carried out. The animals were perfused
randomly and their hippocampal tissue was isolated for the analysis of markers such
as lipid peroxidation like Malondialdehyde (MDA), hepcidin expression, iron, and
ferritin. Blood samples were taken for the measurement of serum inflammatory
cytokine Interleukin (IL)-6.
RESULTS: The findings indicated that treatment with dalteparin reduced IL-6, MDA,
ferritin, and hepcidin expression in diabetic rats compared to treatment with insulin
(P<0.05). Moreover, treatment with dalteparin did not decrease the iron level or
prevented its decline.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with dalteparin improved the cognitive dysfunctions and
symptoms of Alzheimer disease in STZ-induced diabetic rats by appropriately
modulating and reducing oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. This may enhance
the existing knowledge of therapeutics to reduce cognitive impairment in diabetes
and is suggested to be a potential therapeutic agent in diabetes.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Zeinivand, Motahareh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0556-9525   Nahavandi,
Arezo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5317-6056 
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2703-728X 
Roghani, Mehrdad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9209-8484 
Golab, Fereshteh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2829-7881 
Authors Full Name
Zeinivand, Motahareh, Nahavandi, Arezo, Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht,
Roghani, Mehrdad, Golab, Fereshteh
Institution
Zeinivand, Motahareh. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kermanshah
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.   Nahavandi, Arezo. Department
of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Iran, Iran.
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine,
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Iran, Iran.
Roghani, Mehrdad. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Shahed
University, Tehran, Iran.
Golab, Fereshteh. Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
11.
  
Association of Variants in PINX1 and TREM2 With Late-Onset Alzheimer Disease.
Tosto G, Vardarajan B, Sariya S, Brickman AM, Andrews H, Manly JJ, Schupf N,
Reyes-Dumeyer D, Lantigua R, Bennett DA, De Jager PL, Mayeux R
JAMA Neurology. 76(8):942-948, 2019 Aug 01.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31058951
IMPORTANCE: Genetic causes of late-onset Alzheimer disease (LOAD) are not
completely explained by known genetic loci. Whole-exome and whole-genome
sequencing can improve the understanding of the causes of LOAD and provide initial
steps required to identify potential therapeutic targets.
OBJECTIVE: To identify the genetic loci for LOAD across different ethnic groups.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This multicenter cohort study was
designed to analyze whole-exome sequencing data from a multiethnic cohort using a
transethnic gene-kernel association test meta-analysis, adjusted for sex, age, and
principal components, to identify genetic variants associated with LOAD. A meta-
analysis was conducted on the results of 2 independent studies of whole-exome and
whole-genome sequence data from individuals of European ancestry. This group of
European American, African American, and Caribbean Hispanic individuals
participating in an urban population-based study were the discovery cohort; the
additional cohorts included affected individuals and control participants from 2
publicly available data sets. Replication was achieved using independent data sets
from Caribbean Hispanic families with multiple family members affected by LOAD
and the International Genetics of Alzheimer Project.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Late-onset Alzheimer disease.
RESULTS: The discovery cohort included 3595 affected individuals, while the
additional cohorts included 5931 individuals with LOAD and 5504 control participants.
Of 3916 individuals in the discovery cohort, we included 3595 individuals (1397 with
LOAD and 2198 cognitively healthy controls; 2451 [68.2%] women; mean [SD] age,
80.3 [6.83] years). Another 321 individuals (8.2%) were excluded because of non-
LOAD diagnosis, age younger than 60 years, missing covariates, duplicate data, or
genetic outlier status. Gene-based tests that compared affected individuals (n =
7328) and control participants (n = 7702) and included only rare and uncommon
variants annotated as having moderate-high functional effect supported PINX1
(8p23.1) as a locus with gene-wide significance (P = 2.81 x 10-6) after meta-analysis
across the 3 studies. The PINX1 finding was replicated using data from the family-
based study and the International Genetics of Alzheimer Project. Full meta-analysis
of discovery and replication cohorts reached a P value of 6.16 x 10-7 for PINX1 (in
7620 affected individuals vs 7768 control participants). We also identified TREM2 in
an  annotation model that prioritized highly deleterious variants with a combined
annotation dependent depletion greater than 20 (P= 1.0 x 10-7).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This gene-based, transethnic approach
identified PINX1, a gene involved in telomere integrity, and TREM2, a gene with a
product of an immune receptor found in microglia, as associated with LOAD. Both
genes have well-established roles in aging and neurodegeneration.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINEAuthors Full Name
Tosto, Giuseppe, Vardarajan, Badri, Sariya, Sanjeev, Brickman, Adam M, Andrews,
Howard, Manly, Jennifer J, Schupf, Nicole, Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly, Lantigua, Rafael,
Bennett, David A, De Jager, Phillip L, Mayeux, Richard
Institution
Tosto, Giuseppe. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.   Tosto, Giuseppe. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Tosto, Giuseppe. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Vardarajan, Badri. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Vardarajan, Badri. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Sariya, Sanjeev. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Sariya, Sanjeev. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Brickman, Adam M. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
Brickman, Adam M. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Brickman, Adam M. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Andrews, Howard. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Andrews, Howard. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Andrews, Howard. Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Manly, Jennifer J. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Manly, Jennifer J. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Manly, Jennifer J. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Schupf, Nicole. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Schupf, Nicole. Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
Reyes-Dumeyer, Dolly. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Lantigua, Rafael. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NewYork.
Lantigua, Rafael. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Lantigua, Rafael. Department of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, The New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Bennett, David A. Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, Illinois.
De Jager, Phillip L. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the
Aging Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York,
New York.
De Jager, Phillip L. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
De Jager, Phillip L. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging
Brain, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York.
Mayeux, Richard. The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Mayeux, Richard. Department of Epidemiology, Mailman School of Public Health,
Columbia University, New York, New York.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
12.
  
Bufo viridis secretions improve anxiety and depression-like behavior following
intracerebroventricular injection of amyloid beta.
Shirzad S, Neamati A, Vafaee F, Ghazavi H
Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences. 15(6):571-582, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33828600
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Venenum Bufonis is a Chinese traditional
medicine produced from the glandular secretions of toads that contain biogenic
amines, which have anti-inflammatory properties. The present study aimed to
examine the effect of Bufo viridis secretions (BVS) on anxiety and depression-like
behavior and hippocampal senile plaques volume in an animal model of Alzheimer's
disease (AD).
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Thirty-eight male Wistar rats were used. AD was
induced by amyloid-beta (Abeta1-42) (10 mug/2 muL, intracerebroventricular
injection, icv) and then BVS at 20, 40, and 80 mg/kg were injected intraperitoneally
(ip) in six equal intervals over 21 days. Anxiety and depression-like behavior were
assessed using behavioral tests including open field test (OFT), elevated plus maze
(EPM), and forced swimming test (FST) 21 days after the surgery. The volume ofsenile plaques was assessed based on the Cavalieri principle.
FINDINGS/RESULTS: Results of the OFT showed that the central crossing number
and the time in the AD group were significantly decreased compared to the sham
group (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001, respectively). Also, the values of these two
parameters significantly increased in the AD + BVS80 group than the AD group (P <
0.05 and P < 0.001, respectively). The time spent in the closed arm in the EPM
dramatically increased in the AD group compared to the sham group (P < 0.05) and
significantly decreased in the AD + BVS80 group compared to the AD group (P <
0.05). Results of the FST indicated that immobility time had a reduction in the AD +
BVS20 (P < 0.01), AD + BVS40, and AD + BVS80 groups compared to the AD group
(P < 0.001). The volume of senile plaques in the hippocampus showed a reduction in
the treatment groups in comparison with the AD group (P < 0.001 for all).
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Results revealed that BVS injection could
improve symptoms of anxiety and depression and decrease senile plaques in the
hippocampus in an animal model of AD.
Copyright: © 2020 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shirzad, Shima, Neamati, Ali, Vafaee, Farzaneh, Ghazavi, Hamed
Institution
Shirzad, Shima. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Mashhad Branch, Islamic
Azad University, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.   Neamati, Ali. Department of Biology, Faculty of
Science, Mashhad Branch, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Vafaee, Farzaneh. Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Ghazavi, Hamed. Neuroscience Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical
Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Ghazavi, Hamed. Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
13.
  
Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy: Role of Image Guidance in Reducing the
Complications.
Wasi MSI, Sharif S, Shaikh Y
Asian Journal of Neurosurgery. 15(4):926-930, 2020 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33708664
INTRODUCTION: Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is performed by
neurosurgeons around the world for the management of hydrocephalus. ETV has
been associated with multiple complications, the most significant being iatrogenicinjury to the fornix. We aim to establish the fact that the use of image guidance while
planning a trajectory can reduce the incidence of complications as it significantly
alters the usual approach for ETV, i.e., the coronal burr hole can be useful for young
neurosurgeons to overcome the learning curve associated with the procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a prospective, observational study conducted
at Liaquat National Hospital. In this study, 43 patients were included who underwent
ETV for hydrocephalus. Complications were divided into three major groups: arterial
hemorrhage, venous hemorrhage, and injury to neural structures (fornix,
hypothalamus, and oculomotor nerve). The data were compared with studies
showing the complications of ETV with and without usage of image guidance.
RESULTS: Among the 43 patients who underwent ETV with image guidance, only
two patients (4.65%) had iatrogenic fornix contusions. Neither of them developed
memory impairment. None of the patients (0%) encountered other major iatrogenic
complications, including injury to the mammillary body, basilar artery, or oculomotor
nerve.
CONCLUSION: The use of image guidance can reduce trajectory-related
complications, including hemorrhage and iatrogenic injuries to the fornix. This study
showed that the altered trajectory was beneficial in avoiding major neurological
structures while introducing an endoscope through the cortex into the ventricular
system.
Copyright: © 2020 Asian Journal of Neurosurgery.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Wasi, Muhammad Samir Irfan, Sharif, Salman, Shaikh, Yousuf
Institution
Wasi, Muhammad Samir Irfan. Department of Neurosurgery, Hull Royal Infirmary,
Hull, United Kingdom.   Sharif, Salman. Department of Neurosurgery, Liaquat
National Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan.
Shaikh, Yousuf. Department of Neurosurgery, Liaquat National Hospital, Karachi,
Pakistan.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
14.
  
Efficacy of Bacopa Monnieri (Brahmi) and Donepezil in Alzheimer's Disease and Mild
Cognitive Impairment: A Randomized Double-Blind Parallel Phase 2b Study.
Prabhakar S, Vishnu VY, Modi M, Mohanty M, Sharma A, Medhi B, Mittal BR,
Khandelwal N, Goyal MK, Lal V, Singla R, Kansal A, Avasthi A
Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology. 23(6):767-773, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33688125
OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia
worldwide in the older population. There is no disease-modifying therapy available for
AD. The current standard of care drug therapy for AD is cholinesterase inhibitors,including donepezil. Bacopa monnieri or brahmi is used in traditional Indian medicine
for memory loss. We conducted a phase 2b randomized controlled trial (RCT) to find
out the efficacy of brahmi and donepezil in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study was planned as a 52 week, randomized,
double-blind, parallel-group, phase-2 single-center clinical trial comparing the efficacy
and safety of Bacopa monnieri (brahmi) 300 mg OD and donepezil 10 mg OD for 12
months in 48 patients with AD and MCI-AD including cognitive and quality of life
outcomes. The primary outcome was differences in the change from baseline of the
neuropsychological tests [Alzheimer's disease assessment scale-cognitive subscale
(ADAS-Cog) and postgraduate institute (PGI) memory scale] at 12 months between
the intervention group (brahmi) and active comparison group (donepezil).
RESULTS: The study was terminated after 3 years and 9 months, after recruiting 34
patients, because of slow recruitment and a high dropout rate. Intention to treat
analysis after adjusting for baseline confounders showed no difference in the rate of
change in ADAS-Cog score from baseline at any time point, including the last follow-
up. There was no difference in the rate of change in PGI Memory scale (PGIMS) at 3,
6, and 9 months. In the last follow-up, there was a significant difference in the change
in total PGIMS score between brahmi and donepezil, while there was no difference in
individual scores of the PGI memory scale.
CONCLUSION: This phase-2 RCT on the efficacy of brahmi vs. donepezil showed no
significant difference between them after 1 year of treatment. Larger phase-3 trials,
preferably multicentric, are required to find the superiority of brahmi over donepezil.
Copyright: © 2006 - 2020 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Prabhakar, Sudesh, Vishnu, Venugopalan Y, Modi, Manish, Mohanty, Manju,
Sharma, Anchal, Medhi, Bikas, Mittal, B R, Khandelwal, Niranjan, Goyal, Manoj K,
Lal, Vivek, Singla, Rajesh, Kansal, Avinash, Avasthi, Ajit
Institution
Prabhakar, Sudesh. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.   Vishnu, Venugopalan Y. All India
Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Modi, Manish. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Mohanty, Manju. Clinical Neuropsychology, Department of Neurosurgery, Aarogya
Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Sharma, Anchal. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Medhi, Bikas. Department of Pharmacology, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Mittal, B R. Department of Nuclear Medicine, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Khandelwal, Niranjan. Department of Nuclear Medicine, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh,
India.
Goyal, Manoj K. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical
Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Lal, Vivek. Department of Neurology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education
and Research, Chandigarh, India.
Singla, Rajesh. Ayurvedic Consultant, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Kansal, Avinash. Ayurvedic Consultant, Aarogya Clinic, Chandigarh, India.
Avasthi, Ajit. Psychiatry, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research,
Chandigarh, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
15.
  
Heterogeneous Influence of Frailty Phenotypes in Age-Related Hearing Loss and
Tinnitus in Chinese Older Adults: An Explorative Study.
Ruan Q, Chen J, Zhang R, Zhang W, Ruan J, Zhang M, Han C, Yu Z
Frontiers in Psychology. 11:617610, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33664689
BACKGROUND: Fried physical frailty, with mobility frailty and non-motor frailty
phenotypes, is a heterogeneous syndrome. The coexistence of the two phenotypes
and cognitive impairment is referred to as cognitive frailty (CF). It remains unknown
whether frailty phenotype has a different association with hearing loss (HL) and
tinnitus.
METHODS: Of the 5,328 community-dwelling older adults, 429 participants aged
>=58 years were enrolled in the study. The participants were divided into robust,
mobility, and non-mobility frailty, mobility and non-mobility CF (subdivided into
reversible and potentially reversible CF, RCF, and PRCF), and cognitive decline
[subdivided into mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and pre-MCI] groups. The severity
and presentations of HL and/or tinnitus were used as dependent variables in the
multivariate logistic or nominal regression analyses with forward elimination adjusted
for frailty phenotype stratifications and other covariates.
RESULTS: Patients with physical frailty (mobility frailty) or who are robust were found
to have lower probability of developing severe HL and tinnitus, and presented HL
and/or tinnitus than those with only cognitive decline, or CF. Patients with RCF and
non-mobility RCF had higher probability with less HL and tinnitus, and the
presentation of HL and/or tinnitus than those with PRCF and mobility RCF. Other
confounders, age, cognitive and social function, cardiovascular disease, depression,
and body mass index, independently mediated the severity of HL and tinnitus, and
presented HL and/or tinnitus.
CONCLUSION: Frailty phenotypes have divergent association with HL and tinnitus.
Further research is required to understand the differential mechanisms and the
personalized intervention of HL and tinnitus.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier, NCT2017K020.
Copyright © 2021 Ruan, Chen, Zhang, Zhang, Ruan, Zhang, Han and Yu.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Ruan, Qingwei, Chen, Jie, Zhang, Ruxin, Zhang, Weibin, Ruan, Jian, Zhang, Min,
Han, Chao, Yu, Zhuowei
Institution
Ruan, Qingwei. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.   Ruan,
Qingwei. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Jie. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.Chen, Jie. Department of Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Ruxin. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Weibin. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Ruan, Jian. Molecular and Cellular Biology Core Facility, Institute of Neuroscience,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
Zhang, Min. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Han, Chao. Department of Otolaryngology, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Yu, Zhuowei. Shanghai Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Shanghai Key
Laboratory of Clinical Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Research Center of Aging and
Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Yu, Zhuowei. Department of Geriatrics, Huadong Hospital, Shanghai Medical
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
16.
  
Comparing Copper Serum Level and Cognitive Functioning in Patients With
Schizophrenia and Healthy Controls.
Mazhari S, Arjmand S, Eslami Shahrbabaki M, Karimi Ghoughari E
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(5):649-657, 2020 Sep-Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33643558
INTRODUCTION: The altered serum profiles of several trace elements have been
reported in Schizophrenia (SCZ). This study was designed to elucidate whether the
serum levels of Copper (Cu) and Magnesium (Mg), the two essential trace elements
which contribute to neurotransmitter transmission, are altered in patients with SCZ.
We also investigated whether there is an interrelation between cognitive functioning
and the serum levels of Cu and Mg.
METHODS: Sixty patients with SCZ and 30 healthy controls participated in this study.
The patient group was divided into the following: i) early patients (n=35, <=5 years of
illness initiation), and ii) chronic patients (n=25, >=5 years of illness duration). The
serum levels of Cu and Mg were measured by atomic absorption spectroscopy and
ion-selective electrode potentiometry, respectively. To assess cognitive abilities, a
Persian adaptation of the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS)
was administered.
RESULTS: The present research results revealed significantly higher Cu serum
levels in both patient groups [early patients (M=94.6), chronic patients (M=97.5)],
compared to the controls (M=71.0) (P<0.001); however, no significant difference was
observed among the study groups for Mg [patients with the recent onset (M=2.0),
chronic patients (M=2.0), and controls (M=1.9)] P=0.1. While the serum Cu profile ofhealthy individuals revealed a negative correlation with working memory (r=-0.42,
P=0.02), and executive functioning (r=-0.40, P=0.03), no significant correlation was
observed between Cu serum levels of patients and BACS cognitive domains.
CONCLUSION: findings suggested that the high Cu serum concentration might
impact the cognitive decline in healthy individuals; however, no significant correlation
was observed in the Patients; i.e. most likely because cognition is severely impaired
in SCZ. Additional studies examining trace elements in drug-naive patients with SCZ
are required.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Mazhari, Shahrzad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8601-8989   Arjmand,
Shokouh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5151-8702 
Karimi Ghoughari, Elham; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3748-7599 
Authors Full Name
Mazhari, Shahrzad, Arjmand, Shokouh, Eslami Shahrbabaki, Mahin, Karimi
Ghoughari, Elham
Institution
Mazhari, Shahrzad. Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of Neuropharmacology,
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.   Arjmand, Shokouh.
Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman University
of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Eslami Shahrbabaki, Mahin. Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Karimi Ghoughari, Elham. Neuroscience Research Centre, Institute of
Neuropharmacology, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
17.
  
Risk of Fall among Older Adults and its Association with Cognitive Impairment in a
Semi-Urban Community.
Monachan D, Vargese SS, Johny V, Mathew E
Indian Journal of Community Medicine. 45(4):463-466, 2020 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33623202
CONTEXT: Fall in older people is a major public health concern. Two-third of the
death due to fall are preventable. Risk assessment in older adults therefore is the
first step to identify the high-risk group to plan need-based intervention.
AIMS: The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of risk of fall among
older adults and its association with cognitive impairment and sociodemographic
characteristics.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: A cross-sectional study was conducted in the field
practice areas of the department of community medicine in a teaching hospital inSouth Kerala, India.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A semi-structured questionnaire was used to collect
the data. Berg Balance Scale and Mini-Cog Test were used for measuring risk of fall
and cognitive impairment.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: Descriptive statistics and logistic regression were
used for the statistical analysis using SPSS.
RESULTS: Among the older adults, 45% were at risk of fall, 42.4% in males and
57.6% in females. The risk of fall was found to be significantly associated with
cognitive impairment, (odds ratio = 3.89, confidence interval at 95% = 2.06-7.31, P <
0.001). Advanced age, female gender, and unemployed status were significantly
associated with the risk of fall.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of fall prevalence was high and significantly related to
cognitive impairment, advanced age, female gender, and occupational status, with
more than half of those currently not working having a higher risk. The study would
recommend regular follow-up of risk groups for prevention a good percentage of fall
and thereby the related injuries.
Copyright: © 2020 Indian Journal of Community Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Monachan, Dayana, Vargese, Saritha Susan, Johny, Vinny, Mathew, Elsheba
Institution
Monachan, Dayana. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of
Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.   Vargese, Saritha
Susan. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical Sciences
and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Johny, Vinny. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of Medical
Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Mathew, Elsheba. Department of Community Medicine, Pushpagiri Institute of
Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Thiruvalla, Kerala, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
18.
  
Differential Effect of Amyloid Beta1-40 on Short-term and Long-term Plasticity in
Dentate Gyrus of a Rat Model of Alzheimer Disease.
Fahanik-Babaei J, Baluchnejadmojarad T, Roghani M
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):517-524, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613890
INTRODUCTION: Synaptic plasticity is inappropriately affected by
neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer Disease (AD). In this study, we
examined the effect of intrahippocampal amyloid-beta (Abeta1-40) on dentate gyrus
Long-term Potentiation (LTP) and presynaptic short-term plasticity in a rat model of
AD.METHODS: The experimental groups in this research included the control with no
treatment, sham-operated receiving the vehicle (normal saline), and Abeta-lesioned
groups. For modeling AD, aggregated Abeta1-40 (10 mug/2 mul on each side) was
injected into the hippocampal CA1. Three weeks later, Population Spike (PS)
amplitude and slope ratios were determined at different Inter-pulse Intervals (IPI) of
10, 20, 30, and 50 ms as a valid indicator of the short-term presynaptic facilitation
and/or depression. In addition, PS amplitude and slope were taken as an index of
long-term synaptic plasticity after application of High-frequency Stimulation (HFS) to
induce LTP in the medial perforant-dentate gyrus pathway.
RESULTS: No significant differences were noted amongst the experimental groups
regarding fEPSP slope and paired-pulse indices as indicators of short-term plasticity.
In contrast, fEPSP slope and PS amplitude significantly decreased following the
application of HFS in Abeta-injected group. In addition, there was no significant
difference between the control and sham-operated groups regarding the mentioned
parameters.
CONCLUSION: Findings of this study clearly demonstrated that microinjection of
Abeta1-40 into the CA1 could impair LTP in dentate gyrus but could not modify short-
term plasticity.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6707-132X
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2703-728X 
Roghani, Mehrdad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9209-8484 
Authors Full Name
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad, Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht, Roghani, Mehrdad
Institution
Fahanik-Babaei, Javad. Physiology Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Physiology Research
Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Baluchnejadmojarad, Tourandokht. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine,
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Roghani, Mehrdad. Neurophysiology Research Center, Shahed University, Tehran,
Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
19.
  
Crocin Treatment after Maternal Hypoxia Attenuates Spatial Memory Impairment and
Expression of BACE1 and HIF-1alpha in Rat Offspring Brain.
Fahimi Truski F, Ghotbeddin Z, Tabandeh MR, Pourmahdi Borujeni M
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):499-506, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613888INTRODUCTION: Hypoxia via expression of Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1 (HIF-1) is an
important and effective factor in the onset and progression of memory disorders,
such as Alzheimer Disease (AD). The activity of beta-secretase (BACE1) is
increased in hypoxia conditions. BACE1 triggers a cascade of pathological events
resulting in AD. Crocin acts as a memoryimproving agent but its molecular
mechanism is not well-known. Therefore, in this study, the effect of crocin on spatial
memory, HIF-1alpha, and BACE1 gene expression was investigated in rat offspring
under maternal hypoxia.
METHODS: Female pregnant rats on the 20th day of pregnancy were divided into 4
groups, including sham, crocin-treated, hypoxia, and hypoxia group treated with
crocin. In the hypoxia groups, pregnant rats were exposed to 7% oxygen and 93%
nitrogen intensity for 3 h. In the crocin-treated group, crocin (30 mg/kg) was injected
at P14-28 (i.p). At the end, Morris water maze was used to assess spatial memory
and real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to measure the expression
of BACE1 and HIF-1alpha genes in the brain of offspring.
RESULTS: Maternal hypoxia impaired memory compared with the sham group.
However, crocin treatment improved cognitive behavior. HIF-1alpha and BACE1
expressions were upregulated in the brain of offspring in the hypoxia group. Crocin
treatment could attenuate the expression of both genes.
CONCLUSION: According to our results, down-regulation of HIF-1alpha and BACE1
gene expressions in the brain of rat offspring after crocin treatment can be suggested
as a molecular mechanism for crocin to improve spatial memory.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3481-2755
Ghotbeddin, Zohreh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2110-6333 
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3258-8550 
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9478-260X 
Authors Full Name
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh, Ghotbeddin, Zohreh, Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza,
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi
Institution
Fahimi Truski, Fahimeh. Department of Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.   Ghotbeddin, Zohreh. Department
of Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz,
Ahvaz, Iran.
Ghotbeddin, Zohreh. Stem Cell and Transgenic Technology Research Center,
Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza. Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Tabandeh, Mohammad Reza. Stem Cell and Transgenic Technology Research
Center, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Pourmahdi Borujeni, Mahdi. Department of Food Hygiene, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
20.
  
Protective Effects of Pelargonium graveolens Essential Oil on Methomyl-Induced
Oxidative Stress and Spatial Working Memory Impairment in Association with
Histopathological Changes in the Hippocampus of Male Wistar Rats.
Amine KM, Kahina C, Nawel H, Faiza Z, Jean G, Mohamed T, Saadia M, Ahsene B
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):433-446, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613881
INTRODUCTION: Methomyl (MET) is a carbamate insecticide, used in agriculture
and public health to eliminate harmful insects. Besides its advantages in agriculture,
it causes neurotoxic effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of MET
on Spatial Working Memory (SWM), oxidative stress parameters, and
histopathological changes in the hippocampus, as well as the possible protective role
of Pelargonium graveolens Essential Oil (EO).
METHODS: Male Wistar rats were randomized into four groups of six animals: group
I as the control that received the vehicle; group II received EO (75 mg/kg b.w), group
III received MET (2 mg/kg b.w); and group IV received both MET and EO. The rats
were administered the respective doses orally by gavage for 28 days. SWM was
assessed using Y-maze on the day before the first treatment and day 28 after the last
dose. They were sacrificed by decapitation and their brains were taken for assessing
oxidative stress parameters and histopathological analysis.
RESULTS: MET treatment caused SWM deficits. Furthermore, drastic changes were
observed in aspartate transaminase, alanine aminotransferase, and alkaline
phosphatase activities. The level of malondialdehyde significantly increased,
whereas antioxidant (glutathioneS-transferase and catalase) enzyme activities
significantly decreased. The CA1 region of the hippocampus of rats exposed to MET
revealed severe histological alterations. However, supplementation with EO
improved SWM and partially restored the activities of antioxidant systems and
prevented neuronal cell damage.
CONCLUSION: P. graveolens EO has the potential in mitigating most of the adverse
effects in the hippocampus and prevents SWM impairment induced by MET toxicity.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Amine, Khene M'hammed; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7998-8071   Kahina,
Chabane; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7378-5449 
Nawel, Habchi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2057-993X 
Faiza, Zaida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0274-8114 
Jean, Giaimis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2315-0995 
Mohamed, Toumi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1241-3323 
Saadia, Mameri; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9157-8398 
Ahsene, Baz; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5337-4821 
Authors Full Name
Amine, Khene M'hammed, Kahina, Chabane, Nawel, Habchi, Faiza, Zaida, Jean,
Giaimis, Mohamed, Toumi, Saadia, Mameri, Ahsene, Baz
Institution
Amine, Khene M'hammed. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS
Kouba, Algiers, Algeria.   Kahina, Chabane. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and
Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba, Algiers, Algeria.
Nawel, Habchi. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.Faiza, Zaida. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Jean, Giaimis. UMR Qualisud-Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montpellier,
Montpellier, France.
Mohamed, Toumi. Laboratory of Ethnobotany and Naturel Substances, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Saadia, Mameri. Laboratory of Anatomopathology, Mustapha Bacha Hospital,
Algiers, Algeria.
Ahsene, Baz. Laboratory of Animal Physiology and Cell Signaling, ENS Kouba,
Algiers, Algeria.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
21.
  
Ibuprofen Protection Against Restrained Chronic Stress-induced Depression in Male
Rats.
Nozari M, Nahavandi A, Zeinivand M, Eslami Gharaati M, Godarzi M, Ahmadi M,
Jamali-Raeufy N
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 11(4):413-422, 2020 Jul-Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33613879
INTRODUCTION: Stress predisposes organisms to depression and cognitive
impairments, and seems to interact with metabolic homeostasis. The inflammatory
response and the upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines are some of the
consequences related to chronic stress. In this study, we investigated the preventive
effect of chronic administration of ibuprofen, as an inhibitor of cyclooxygenases, on
the cognitive and behavioral alterations and the weight gain reduction induced by
simultaneous chronic restraint stress in rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Male Wistar rats were subjected to chronic restraint
stress and injected daily with the variable doses of ibuprofen or vehicle, for 21
consecutive days. Then, all animals were tested with the forced swim test and
passive avoidance conditioning. Also, the weight of the animals was recorded before
and after the interventions. Ultimately, plasma interleukin 6 (IL-6) levels were
measured.
RESULTS: Chronic stress increased depressive-like behaviors, impaired learning,
and disrupted the normal weight gain. However, the animals that received the highest
dose of ibuprofen showed less depressive-like behaviors, a better avoidance
memory, and a higher weight gain. However, the level of plasma IL-6 did not differ
significantly between the study groups.
CONCLUSION: The administration of ibuprofen prevents the cognitive and
behavioral consequences of chronic stress. During the recovery, the plasma levels of
IL-6 were not elevated by stress, and the IL-6 levels did not predict the behavioral
performance of the stressed animals. The exact mechanisms of the protective effects
of ibuprofen against chronic stress need to be further investigated.
Copyright© 2020 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Nozari, Masoumeh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1543-6240   Nahavandi,
Arezo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5317-6056 
Zeinivand, Motahareh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0556-9525 
Eslami Gharaati, Maryam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3899-3541 
Jamali-Raeufy, Nida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2416-0335 
Authors Full Name
Nozari, Masoumeh, Nahavandi, Arezo, Zeinivand, Motahareh, Eslami Gharaati,
Maryam, Godarzi, Mina, Ahmadi, Mohammad, Jamali-Raeufy, Nida
Institution
Nozari, Masoumeh. Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology,
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.   Nahavandi, Arezo.
Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Iran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Nahavandi, Arezo. Neuroscience Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Nahavandi, Arezo. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Zeinivand, Motahareh. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Eslami Gharaati, Maryam. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Godarzi, Mina. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Ahmadi, Mohammad. Neuroscience Research Center, Iran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Jamali-Raeufy, Nida. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Iran University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
22.
  
Advancing family dementia caregiver interventions in low- and middle-income
countries: A pilot cluster randomized controlled trial of Resources for Advancing
Alzheimer's Caregiver Health in Vietnam (REACH VN).
Hinton L, Nguyen H, Nguyen HT, Harvey DJ, Nichols L, Martindale-Adams J, Nguyen
BT, Nguyen BTT, Nguyen AN, Nguyen CH, Nguyen TTH, Nguyen TL, Nguyen ATP,
Nguyen NB, Tiet QQ, Nguyen TA, Nguyen PQ, Nguyen TA, Pham T
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions.
6(1):e12063, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33532542
INTRODUCTION: Low- and middle-income countries have rapidly increasing
numbers of people with dementia, yet little evidence on family caregiving
interventions. We tested the preliminary efficacy and feasibility of a family caregivingintervention in northern Vietnam.
METHODS: Nine clusters comprising 60 family caregivers were randomized to a
culturally adapted version of a four- to six-session, multicomponent intervention
delivered in-home over 2 to 3 months, or enhanced control. Eligible caregivers were
>=18 years of age and scored >=6 on the Zarit Burden Inventory (ZBI).
RESULTS: Fifty-one caregivers (85%) completed the study. Using analysis of
covariance with 3-month assessment as the outcome and baseline assessment as a
covariate, intervention group caregivers had an average ZBI (primary outcome) score
1.2 standard deviation (SD) lower (P = .02) and Patient Health Questionnaire-4
(psychological distress) score 0.7 SD lower (P = .03) than controls.
DISCUSSION: In the first study of its kind in Vietnam, a culturally adapted,
manualized, family caregiver intervention was both efficacious and feasible.
Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research &
Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of Alzheimer's
Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Hinton, Ladson, Nguyen, Huong, Nguyen, Hung Trong, Harvey, Danielle J, Nichols,
Linda, Martindale-Adams, Jennifer, Nguyen, Binh Thanh, Nguyen, Binh Thi Thanh,
Nguyen, Anh Ngoc, Nguyen, Chinh Hong, Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai, Nguyen, Thuy Le,
Nguyen, Anh Thi Phuong, Nguyen, Ngoc Bich, Tiet, Quyen Q, Nguyen, Tuan Anh,
Nguyen, Phong Quy, Nguyen, Trung Anh, Pham, Thang
Institution
Hinton, Ladson. Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences University of
California Davis California USA.   Nguyen, Huong. Department of Religious Studies
University of South Carolina Columbia South Carolina USA.
Nguyen, Hung Trong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Hung Trong. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Harvey, Danielle J. Department of Public Health Sciences University of California
Davis California USA.
Nichols, Linda. Caregiver Center Veterans Affairs Medical Center Memphis
Tennessee USA.
Nichols, Linda. Department of Preventive Medicine University of Tennessee Health
Sciences Center Memphis Tennessee USA.
Martindale-Adams, Jennifer. Caregiver Center Veterans Affairs Medical Center
Memphis Tennessee USA.
Martindale-Adams, Jennifer. Department of Preventive Medicine University of
Tennessee Health Sciences Center Memphis Tennessee USA.
Nguyen, Binh Thanh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Binh Thi Thanh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Anh Ngoc. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Chinh Hong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thuy Le. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Anh Thi Phuong. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Ngoc Bich. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Tiet, Quyen Q. California School of Professional Psychology at Alliant International
University San Francisco California USA.
Nguyen, Tuan Anh. University of South Australia Adelaide Australia.
Nguyen, Phong Quy. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Trung Anh. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Nguyen, Trung Anh. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. Vietnam National Geriatric Hospital Hanoi Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. Hanoi Medical University Hanoi Vietnam.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
23.
  
Effect of Watermelon Extract on Nerve Conduction Velocity, Memory, and T4 Level in
Rats.
Jafari Nejad Bajestani M, Yousefi M, Hadjzadeh MA, Hosseini M, Taghipour A,
Yousefvand S
Advanced Biomedical Research. 9:53, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33457336
BACKGROUND: Watermelon is a fruit with the thirst-quenching effect and especially
is consumed in summer. In this study, the effect of consumption of watermelon
extract (in drinking water) on thyroid hormone level (TT4), animals' weight, water and
food consumption, nerve conduction velocity (NCV), and memory in Wistar rats were
investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four male Wistar rats were divided into three
groups: control, CT 1500 mg/kg, and CT 3000 mg/kg (n = 8, in each group).
Watermelon extract was administered for 42 days. The results measured in this study
were analyzed with repeated measures or one-way analysis of variance and
compared by the least significant difference post hoc. P < 0.05 was considered as
significant difference.
RESULTS: The results showed that animals' weight in both the treatment groups
decreased compared to the control group (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively).
Water and food consumption and the level of TT4 increased when compared to the
control group in both the treated groups (both P < 0.001). NCV in both the treated
groups decreased in comparison with the control group (both P < 0.001). Spatial
memory did not change significantly, but passive avoidance memory in both the
treated groups significantly decreased in comparison to the control group
(respectively, with P < 0.05 and P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Based on these finding, in spite of increase in food and water
consumption in the treated groups, animal weight did not increase significantly.
Impairment in memory and decrease in NCV were also occurred, but TT4 level was
increased in animals treated with watermelon extract.
Copyright: © 2020 Advanced Biomedical Research.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jafari Nejad Bajestani, Majid, Yousefi, Mahdi, Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza, Hosseini,
Mahmoud, Taghipour, Ali, Yousefvand, Shiba
Institution
Jafari Nejad Bajestani, Majid. Department of Persian Medicine, School of Persian
and Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad,
Iran.   Yousefi, Mahdi. Department of Persian Medicine, School of Persian and
Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Division of Neurocognitive Sciences, Psychiatry and
Behavioural Sciences Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran.
Hadjzadeh, Mousa-Al-Reza. Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Division of Neurocognitive Sciences, Psychiatry and
Behavioural Sciences Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,
Mashhad, Iran.
Hosseini, Mahmoud. Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad University
of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Taghipour, Ali. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Cancer Research
Center, Social Determinants of Health Research Center, School of Health, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Yousefvand, Shiba. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
24.
  
High milk consumption is associated with carotid atherosclerosis in middle and old-
aged Chinese.
He M, Guo Z, Lu Z, Wei S, Wang Z
International Journal of Cardiology Hypertension. 5:100031, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33447760
BACKGROUND: Carotid atherosclerosis (CA) can reflect atherosclerotic status of
systemic vessels, and is associated with ischemic stroke and cognitive impairment.
Milk consumption is growing in China, and data are limited on the association
between milk and CA risk.
METHODS: Participants aged >=40 years in China National Stroke Prevention
Project were recruited for carotid ultrasound examination, and those with carotid
endarterectomy, carotid stenting stroke or coronary heart disease were excluded.
Participants were defined as having CA when intima-media thickness (IMT) >=1 mm
or plaques were detected by ultrasonography. For milk consumption, though contents
were not analyzed, people were divided into high consumption (>=200 ml/day and
>=5 day/week) and low consumption (occasional or never) groups. Multivariate
logistics regression analyses were done in both full and propensity score-matched
population to identify the association between milk consumption and CA.
RESULTS: 84880 participants were included in the final analysis. After being
adjusted by age, gender, living location, smoking habits, drinking habits, physical
activity, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, high milk consumption is
associated with CA in both full population (odds ratio [OR] = 1.26, 95% confidence
interval [CI] 1.19-1.33) and propensity score-matched population (OR = 1.25, 95%CI
1.17-1.34). High milk consumption is also a risk factor for IMT thickening (OR = 1.15,95%CI 1.08-1.23), carotid plaque formation (OR = 1.17, 95%CI 1.09-1.25) and
carotid stenosis over 50% (OR = 1.52, 95%CI 1.10-2.14) in the propensity score-
matched population.
CONCLUSIONS: High milk consumption is related to CA in middle and old-aged
Chinese population. More cautious advice on milk intake should be given in this
population for prevention of atherosclerosis.
Copyright © 2020 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
He, Miao, Guo, Zaogeng, Lu, Zuxun, Wei, Sheng, Wang, Zhihong
Institution
He, Miao. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health,Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.   Guo, Zaogeng. Health Science Center, Shenzhen Second People's
Hospital, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
Lu, Zuxun. Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public
Health, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.
Wei, Sheng. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health,Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.
Wang, Zhihong. Health Science Center, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, The
First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China.
Wang, Zhihong. Guangdong Innovation Platform of Translational Research for
Cerebrovascular Diseases, Shenzhen, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
25.
  
Cognitive Disorders in Patients with Multiple Sclerosis.
Sehanovic A, Smajlovic D, Tupkovic E, Ibrahimagic OC, Kunic S, Dostovic Z, Zoletic
E, Pasic Z
Materia Sociomedica. 32(3):191-195, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33424448
INTRODUCTION: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, (auto) immune
disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Cognitive disorders are found in over
50% of patients.
AIM: The aim of the study was to determine the distribution of cognitive disorders in
people with MS.
METHODS: The prospective study included 135 respondents with MS and 50 healthy
respondents. The respondents were divided into three groups: the first group
consisted of 85 respondents where the disease lasted longer than one year, the
second group consisted of 50 respondents with newly diagnosed MS, the third groupconsisted of 50 healthy respondents. Clinical assessment instruments were:
Extended Disability Score in Multiple Sclerosis Patients, Mini Mental Status, Battery
of Tests to Assess Cognitive Functions: Wechsler Intelligence Scale, Revised Beta
Test, Raven Colored Progressive Matrices, Wechsler Memory Scale, Rey Audio
Verbal Learning Test -Osterriecht's complex character test, verbal fluency test.
RESULTS: Cognitive disorders were present in 40-60% of respondents with MS.
Visuospatial, visuoconstructive and visuoperceptive functions are worse in the first
group. Mnestic functions (learning process, short-term and long-term memory,
recollection, verbal-logical memory) were most affected in both groups of
respondents, ranging from 30-60%. Poorer cognitive domains are in the first groups
of respondents. Immediate working process memory (current learning), memory,
attention, short-term and logical memory is worse in the examinees of the first group.
At the beginning of the disease, 16% had verbal fluency difficulties, and as the
disease progresses, the difficulties become more pronounced.
CONCLUSION: Cognitive disorders are heterogeneous, they can be noticed in the
early stages of the disease. They refer to impairments of working memory, executive
functions and attention, while global intellectual efficiency is later reduced.
Copyright © 2020 Aida Sehanovic, Dzevdet Smajlovic, Emir Tupkovic, Omer C.
Ibrahimagic, Suljo Kunic, Zikrija Dostovic, Emina Zoletic, Zejneba Pasic.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Sehanovic, Aida, Smajlovic, Dzevdet, Tupkovic, Emir, Ibrahimagic, Omer C, Kunic,
Suljo, Dostovic, Zikrija, Zoletic, Emina, Pasic, Zejneba
Institution
Sehanovic, Aida. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.   Sehanovic, Aida. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Smajlovic, Dzevdet. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Smajlovic, Dzevdet. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Tupkovic, Emir. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Tupkovic, Emir. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Ibrahimagic, Omer C. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Ibrahimagic, Omer C. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Kunic, Suljo. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Kunic, Suljo. Center for Neurology, Health Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Dostovic, Zikrija. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
Dostovic, Zikrija. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Zoletic, Emina. Clinic of Neurology, Medical Center of University in Sarajevo,
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Pasic, Zejneba. Clinic of Neurology, University Medical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia
and Herzegovina.
Pasic, Zejneba. Faculty of Medicine, University of Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
Year of Publication
2020 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
26.
  
Outcomes and interventions in the elderly with and without cognitive impairment: a
longitudinal study.
da Silva ACS, Ansai JH, Cezar NOC, Carvalho Vale FA, Dos Santos JG, de Andrade
LP
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):394-402, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354293
BACKGROUND: Clinical follow-up studies are necessary for a better understanding
of the evolution of cognitive impairment as well as the development of better
assessment and intervention tools.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether older people with preserved cognition (PC), mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) show differences in
clinical outcomes and interventions after a 32-month period.
METHODS: One hundred twenty-four community-dwelling older people were
included and classified in one of three groups (PC, MCI and mild AD). Information on
clinical outcomes (deaths, new diagnoses, falls, need for assistance or changes in
routine and hospitalizations) and interventions (increased use of medication,
physiotherapeutic intervention, practice of physical exercise, etc.) in the 32-month
period were collected by telephone or during a home visit on a single day.
RESULTS: Ninety-five participants (35 with PC, 33 with MCI and 27 with AD) were
reevaluated after 32 months. The need for assistance/changes in routine was
significantly higher in the AD group, especially with regard to basic activities of daily
living. Unlike the other groups, the PC group did not show "other diagnoses" (urinary
incontinence, prolapse, change in vision or autoimmune disease). No significant
differences were found regarding other variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Older people with and without cognitive impairment exhibited
differences in some clinical outcomes after 32 months, such as need for assistance
or changes in their routine and new diagnoses of specific diseases. Therefore, the
multidimensionality of geriatric patients should be considered when planning
assessments and interventions.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7299-2083
Ansai, Juliana Hotta; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9873-3509 
Cezar, Natalia Oiring de Castro; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8264-3565 
Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8826-2010 
Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5627-4655 
de Andrade, Larissa Pires; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8860-5818 
Authors Full Name
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares, Ansai, Juliana Hotta, Cezar, Natalia Oiring de
Castro, Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis, Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes, de Andrade,
Larissa PiresInstitution
da Silva, Anne Caroline Soares. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.   Ansai, Juliana Hotta. Gerontology Department,
Universidade Federal de Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Cezar, Natalia Oiring de Castro. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Carvalho Vale, Francisco Assis. Medicine Department, Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Dos Santos, Julimara Gomes. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de
Sao Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
de Andrade, Larissa Pires. Physiotherapy Department, Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos - Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
INTRODUCAO: Estudos com acompanhamento clinico sao necessarios para um
melhor entendimento da evolucao do quadro cognitivo e desenvolvimento de
melhores estrategias de avaliacao e intervencao.OBJETIVO: Investigar se idosos
com cognicao preservada (CP), comprometimento cognitivo leve (CCL) e doenca de
Alzheimer (DA) leve apresentam diferencas nos desfechos clinicos e intervencoes
realizadas ao longo de 32 meses.METODOS: A amostra foi constituida de 124
idosos residentes na comunidade foram incluidos e classificados em um dos tres
grupos (CP, CCL, DA leve). Informacoes sobre desfechos clinicos (obitos, novos
diagnosticos, quedas, necessidade de assistencia ou mudancas de rotina e
hospitalizacoes) e intervencoes realizadas (aumento do uso de medicamentos,
intervencao fisioterapeutica, pratica de exercicios fisicos e outras) foram coletadas,
no periodo de 32 meses, por telefone ou durante visita domiciliar em um unico
dia.RESULTADOS: Apos 32 meses, 95 idosos (35 CP, 33 CCL e 27 DA) foram
reavaliados. A necessidade de assistencia/mudancas de rotina foi significativamente
maior no Grupo DA, principalmente para as atividades basicas de vida diaria.
Diferentemente dos outros grupos, o Grupo CP nao apresentou "outros
diagnosticos" (incontinencia urinaria, prolapso, alteracoes visuais e doenca
autoimune). Nenhuma outra diferenca significativa foi encontrada quanto as outras
variaveis.CONCLUSAO: Os idosos com e sem comprometimento cognitivo
apresentaram diferencas em alguns desfechos clinicos apos 32 meses, como
necessidade de assistencia/mudancas de rotina e novos diagnosticos de doencas
especificas. Assim, a multidimensionalidade do idoso deve ser considerada ao
planejar avaliacoes e intervencoes.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
27.
  
Normative data for middle-aged Brazilians in the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale.
Carvalho GA, Caramelli P
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):350-357, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354287Despite the advances in the diagnosis of dementia, neuropsychological assessment
remains an important tool. The Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS) was designed to
evaluate people with suspected dementia and allows for the analysis of different
cognitive domains. Considering the numerous cases of early-onset dementia,
specific reference standards aimed at the middle-aged population are necessary.
OBJECTIVE: To provide normative data for the middle-aged Brazilian population in
DRS and to investigate the influence of education level, age, sex, and intelligence
quotient (IQ) on the results.
METHODS: Overall, 120 healthcare professionals and caregivers from a hospital,
who were healthy, aged between 45 and 64 years, and had at least four years of
formal education, were included in the study. They were equally divided into six
groups. In each age group (45-54 and 55-64 years), there were three educational
levels: 4-7, 8-11, and 12 or more (12+) years of formal education. The results are
presented as mean values, standard deviations, and percentiles. Comparisons
between groups were carried out for age, sex, and education level. Age, years of
formal education, and IQ were also analyzed as continuous variables by Spearman's
correlation.
RESULTS: Concerning education level, the comparison between groups showed
differences in the results for the total scale and subscales, except for the
Construction subscale. No differences were found for age and sex. Correlations
observed for years of formal education and IQ were similar. No correlation was found
for age.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study contributes to the evaluation of dementia
concerning people younger than 65 years of age and reinforces the importance of
education in the interpretation of the scores.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2210-1016
Caramelli, Paulo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4786-6990 
Authors Full Name
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida, Caramelli, Paulo
Institution
Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida. Rede Sarah de Hospitais de Reabilitacao - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.   Carvalho, Guilherme Almeida. Programa de Pos-Graduacao
em Ciencias Aplicadas a Saude do Adulto, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Caramelli, Paulo. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias Aplicadas a Saude do
Adulto, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Caramelli, Paulo. Grupo de Pesquisa em Neurologia Cognitiva e do Comportamento,
Departamento de Clinica Medica, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
Minas Gerais - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Apesar dos avancos no diagnostico de demencia, a avaliacao neuropsicologica
continua sendo uma importante ferramenta. A Escala de Avaliacao de Demencia de
Mattis (Mattis Dementia Rating Scale - DRS) foi projetada para avaliar pessoas com
suspeita de demencia e permite a analise de diferentes dominios cognitivos. Dados
os numerosos casos de demencia com inicio precoce, sao necessarias normas
especificas para a populacao de meia-idade.OBJETIVO: Fornecer dados normativos
para a populacao brasileira de meia-idade na escala Mattis e investigar a influencia
da escolaridade, idade, sexo e quociente de inteligencia (QI) nos
resultados.METODOS: 120 funcionarios e cuidadores saudaveis de um hospital,
com idade entre 45 e 64 anos e com pelo menos quatro anos de escolaridade foram
incluidos no estudo, os quais foram divididos igualmente em seis grupos. Havia tresniveis educacionais para cada faixa etaria (45-54 e 55-64 anos): 4 a 7 anos de
estudo (4-7), 8 a 11 (8-11) e 12 anos ou mais (12+). Os resultados sao apresentados
como valores medios, desvios padrao e percentis. Foram realizadas comparacoes
entre os grupos de acordo com idade, sexo e escolaridade. Idade, anos de estudo e
QI foram tambem analisados como variaveis continuas atraves da correlacao de
Spearman.RESULTADOS: Para a educacao, a comparacao entre os grupos
mostrou diferencas nos resultados da escala total e subescalas, exceto na
subescala Construcao. Nao foram identificadas diferencas para idade e sexo. As
correlacoes observadas para anos de estudo e QI foram semelhantes. Nenhuma
correlacao foi encontrada para idade.CONCLUSAO: O presente estudo contribui
para a avaliacao da demencia em individuos com menos de 65 anos e reforca a
importancia de considerar o nivel educacional na interpretacao dos escores.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
28.
  
Environmental factors between normal and superagers in an Argentine cohort.
Calandri IL, Crivelli L, Martin ME, Egido N, Guimet NM, Allegri RF
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(4):345-349, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33354286
Normal aging usually brings age-related cognitive decline. However, there is a group
of aged individuals who have exceptional memory performance: the superagers.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to identify the environmental factors that could influence
exceptional memory performance in a cohort of Argentine individuals.
METHODS: Forty healthy volunteers >80 years of age were classified into two
groups, superagers (SA, n=20) and normal agers (NA, n=20), according to the
Northwestern SuperAging Program criteria. Participants were neuropsychologically
tested and evaluated on environmental aspects: working status, education,
bilingualism, cognitive reserve, physical activity, social networking, clinical
comorbidities, and longevity of parents and siblings.
RESULTS: Both groups were highly educated (NA=16.3+/-3 years; SA 15.85+/-2.6;
p=0.6), 11.8% of the sample was still working without differences between groups.
There were no differences in cognitive reserve inventory (p=0.7), physical activity
engagement (p=0.423), or social network index (p=0.73). As for longevity, 44% of the
siblings lived longer than 80 years of age (p=0.432) and maternal longevity was
linked to SA (NA=46.7%; SA=80%; p=0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: This study is a pilot approximation to the superaging population in
Argentina. Our results suggest that environmental factors related to successful aging
do not differentiate superaging. SA may depend on variables yet to be identified,
probably of a genetic/metabolic order.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameIDCalandri, Ismael Luis; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6983-1430   Crivelli,
Lucia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0083-9389 
Martin, Maria Eugenia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5757-5938 
Egido, Noelia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7420-2324 
Guimet, Nahuel Magrath; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7420-8547 
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7166-1234 
Authors Full Name
Calandri, Ismael Luis, Crivelli, Lucia, Martin, Maria Eugenia, Egido, Noelia, Guimet,
Nahuel Magrath, Allegri, Ricardo Francisco
Institution
Calandri, Ismael Luis. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.   Crivelli, Lucia. Departamento de Neurologia,
FLENI Ringgold Standard Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Martin, Maria Eugenia. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Egido, Noelia. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard Institution -
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Guimet, Nahuel Magrath. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco. Departamento de Neurologia, FLENI Ringgold Standard
Institution - Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Allegri, Ricardo Francisco. Universidad de la Costa - Barranquilla, Atlantico,
Colombia.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O envelhecimento normal geralmente traz declinio cognitivo relacionado a idade. No
entanto, existe um grupo de idosos com desempenho excepcional de memoria: os
superidosos.OBJETIVO: Nosso objetivo foi identificar os fatores ambientais que
podem influenciar o desempenho excepcional da memoria em uma coorte de
individuos argentinos.METODOS: Quarenta voluntarios saudaveis com idade >80
anos foram classificados em dois grupos: superidosos (SI, n=20) e idosos normais
(IN, n=20), de acordo com os criterios do Programa de Superidosos da Universidade
Northwestern. Os participantes foram testados neuropsicologicamente e avaliados
nos aspectos ambientais: situacao de trabalho, escolaridade, bilinguismo, reserva
cognitiva, atividade fisica e rede social, comorbidades clinicas e longevidade de pais
e irmaos.RESULTADOS: Ambos os grupos tinham alto nivel de escolaridade
(IN=16,3+/-3 anos; SI=15,85+/-2,6; p=0,6), 11,8% da amostra ainda trabalhava sem
diferenca entre os grupos. Nao houve diferencas no inventario de reserva cognitiva
(p=0,7), pratica de atividade fisica (p=0,423) ou indice de rede social (p=0,73).
Quanto a longevidade, 44% dos irmaos viviam mais de 80 anos (p=0,432) e a
longevidade materna estava associada a SI (IN=46,7%; SI=80%;
p=0,045).CONCLUSOES: Este estudo e uma aproximacao piloto ao super
envelhecimento da populacao na Argentina. Nossos resultados sugerem que os
fatores ambientais relacionados ao envelhecimento bem-sucedido nao diferenciam
os superidosos. Ser superidoso pode depender de variaveis ainda nao identificadas,
provavelmente de ordem genetica/metabolica.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
29.
  
The comorbidity conditions and polypharmacy in elderly patients with mental illness
in a middle income country: a cross-sectional study.
de Lima JD, Teixeira IA, Silva FO, Deslandes AC
IBRO Reports. 9:96-101, 2020 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33336105
BACKGROUND: Mental disorders increase the risk factor for developing physical
comorbidity conditions, such as cardiometabolic diseases. There is a high prevalence
of multimorbidity and polypharmacy in the elderly population which hampers clinical
response. Studies have shown that this positive correlation between the aging
process and enhancement of physical comorbidities is especially high among older
adults who live in low or middle income countries.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between physical disease comorbidities
and polypharmacy in older adults with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease
(AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or major depressive disorder (MDD), living in a
middle income country.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study of community-dwelling elderly individuals who are
cognitively healthy and those with AD, MCI, or MDD. The severity scale of the
Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) was calculated to classify the severity of
comorbidity condition. Logistic regression model (unadjusted and adjusted for age)
were used to calculate odds ratios (OR) and 95 % confidence intervals (CI) for
cardiometabolic comorbidity (hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia and overweight),
and polypharmacy.
RESULTS: Although there was not an increased risk of hypertension, diabetes, and
obesity among the groups, elderly people with mental disorders presented higher
odds for polypharmacy condition. Polypharmacy was significantly higher for all
groups in comparison with cognitively healthy participants: AD (OR 22.00, 95 % CI
6.11-79.11), MDD (OR 14.73, 95 % CI 3.69-58.75) and MCI (OR 10.31, 95 % CI
2.44-43.59). Elderly patients with AD presented more severe comorbidities and
higher risks for dyslipidemia.
CONCLUSION: Elderly patients with depression, dementia and mild cognitive
impairment have considerably higher odds for polypharmacy. People with dementia
also have greater comorbidity severity than those who are cognitively healthy. In
middle income countries, there is an urgent need to focus on promoting age-
appropriate health approaches for the elderly with mental illness to prevent the
development of aggravated cardiometabolic conditions and polypharmacy.
Copyright © 2020 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
de Lima, Juliana Dias, Teixeira, Ivan Abdalla, Silva, Felipe de Oliveira, Deslandes,
Andrea Camaz
Institution
de Lima, Juliana Dias. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.   Teixeira, Ivan Abdalla. Institute of Psychiatry,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Silva, Felipe de Oliveira. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Deslandes, Andrea Camaz. Institute of Psychiatry, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
30.
  
Resting State Brain Network Function in Elderly: The Formation of Social Ties.
Oh S, Kim A, Kang E, Choi S
International Journal of Psychological Research. 13(2):59-67, 2020 Jul-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33329878
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to determine the relevance of the
relationship between brain network and the social ties management.
METHODS: Participants are based on 52 Korean seniors aged 65 and older who live
in Ganghwa-gun, Incheon. We used a closed-triad index (CTI), which is the most
basic unit of analysis in the study of group phenomena. This index is a social
networking variable that has been shown to have a different implication depending on
the subject's condition and role. After two questionnaire surveys were conducted at
three years intervals, participants were classified into an increased group and a
decreased group according to the change of CTI. Resting-state fMRI analysis were
followed to investigate the difference of brain networks between groups.
RESULTS: According to the analysis of the study, the whole participants who had
increased in number of CTI has higher local efficiency than the group of the
participants who had no effect or decreased in CTI.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that social relationship, which is substantially
related to brain network, is a major factor in successful aging. Lastly, since there is a
restriction that the study cannot explain the causal aspect of the brain network and
the triad-relationship, there is a need for further investigation.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Oh, Seolah, Kim, Aran, Kang, Eunji, Choi, Sungwon
Other Abstract
Publisher
ANTECEDENTES: El proposito de este estudio fue determinar la relevancia de la
relacion entre la red cerebral y el manejo de los lazos sociales.METODO: los
participantes son 52 adultos mayores coreanos de 65 anos o mas que viven en
Ganghwa-gun, Incheon. Utilizamos un indice de triada cerrada (CTI), que es la
unidad de analisis mas basica en el estudio de los fenomenos grupales. Este indice
es una variable de red social que ha demostrado tener una implicacion diferente
dependiendo de la condicion y el rol del sujeto. Despues de realizar dos encuestas
por cuestionario a intervalos de tres anos, los participantes se clasificaron en un
grupo aumentado y un grupo disminuido de acuerdo con el cambio de CTI. Se siguio
el analisis de fMRI en estado de reposo para investigar la diferencia de las redes
cerebrales entre los grupos.RESULTADOS: Segun el analisis del estudio, todos los
participantes que habian aumentado en numero de CTI tienen una mayor eficiencia
local que el grupo de participantes que no tuvieron ningun efecto o disminuyeron en
CTI.CONCLUSIONES: Nuestro estudio sugiere que la relacion social que estasustancialmente relacionada con la red cerebral es un factor importante en el
envejecimiento exitoso. Por ultimo, dado que existe una restriccion de que el estudio
no puede explicar el aspecto causal de la red cerebral y la relacion triada, existe la
necesidad de una mayor investigacion.
Language: Spanish
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
31.
  
Evaluation of a Novel Technology-Based Program Designed to Assess and Train
Everyday Skills in Older Adults.
Czaja SJ, Kallestrup P, Harvey PD
Innovation in Aging. 4(6):igaa052, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33324761
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Performance of everyday activities is often
challenging for older adults. We evaluated a novel computer-based functional skills
assessment and training (CFSAT) program, which includes simulations of everyday
tasks (e.g., money and medication management).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The sample included noncognitively
impaired (NC) older adults (n = 51) and cognitively impaired (CI) older adults (n =
43), who ranged in age from 60 to 86 years (M = 73.12; SD = 6.06), were primarily
female (90%), and ethnically diverse (23% Hispanic, 51% African American).
Participants (stratified by cognitive status) were randomized to 1 of the 2 conditions
training alone (CFSAT) or CFSAT with computerized cognitive training and trained up
to 24 training sessions. Task performance, using measures of completion time and
efficiency (accuracy/completion time), was evaluated at baseline, the final training
session, and immediately posttraining with an alternate form of the CFSAT
assessment.
RESULTS: Both NC and CI participants demonstrated significant performance
improvements across all tasks following training (all ps < .001). The CI participants
demonstrated reduced training gains compared to the NC participants (all ps < .001).
Training gains did not vary as a function of training conditions.
DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: The findings suggest that CFSAT is an
efficacious program for assessing and training everyday task performance. CFSAT
can ultimately be used as an intervention strategy to enhance functional
independence for aging adults with and without cognitive impairments.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
The Gerontological Society of America.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Czaja, Sara J, Kallestrup, Peter, Harvey, Philip D
Institution
Czaja, Sara J. Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Center on Aging andBehavioral Research, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York.   Kallestrup,
Peter. i-Function Inc., Miami, Florida.
Harvey, Philip D. Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, University of
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Florida.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
32.
  
Montreal Cognitive Assessment as Screening Measure for Mild and Major
Neurocognitive Disorder in a Chilean Population.
Bello-Lepe S, Alonso-Sanchez MF, Ortega A, Gaete M, Veliz M, Lira J, Perez Salas
CP
Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders Extra. 10(3):105-114, 2020 Sep-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33250917
BACKGROUND: The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) is a sensitive
screening instrument for mild neurocognitive disorder (mild NCD). However, cut-off
scores and accuracy indices should be established using representative samples of
the population. In this context, the aim of this study was to update the normative
values, and diagnostic efficiency statistics of the MoCA to detect mild NCD in the
Chilean population.
METHODS: This study included 226 participants from the north, center, and south of
the country, classified into 3 groups: healthy elderly (HE; n = 113), mild NCD (n =
65), and major neurocognitive disorder (major NCD; n = 48).
RESULTS: The optimal cut-off score to discriminate mild NCD from HE participants
was 20 points with a sensitivity of 82.8% and a specificity of 84.1%. The observed
balance between sensitivity and specificity shows a good test performance either to
confirm or discard a diagnosis. The cut-off between mild NCD and major NCD from
HE participants was 19 points with 85.6% of sensitivity and 90.3% of specificity.
CONCLUSION: Overall diagnostic accuracy can be considered as outstanding (AUC
>=0.904) when discriminating HE from both mild NCD and major NCD. These results
showed that the MoCA is a suitable tool to identify mild NCD and major NCD.
Copyright © 2020 by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Bello-Lepe, Sebastian, Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca, Ortega, Alonso, Gaete,
Marcelo, Veliz, Marcela, Lira, Juan, Perez Salas, Claudia Paz
Institution
Bello-Lepe, Sebastian. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de Fonoaudiologia,
Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.   Bello-Lepe, Sebastian. Psychology
and Language Sciences Division, University College London, London, United
Kingdom.
Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de
Fonoaudiologia, Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Psychology and Language Sciences Division,
University College London, London, United Kingdom.
Alonso-Sanchez, Maria Francisca. Centro de Investigacion del Desarrollo en
Cognicion y Lenguaje, CIDCL-UV, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valparaiso,
Vina del Mar, Chile.
Ortega, Alonso. Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de Fonoaudiologia, Universidad de
Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.
Ortega, Alonso. Psychology and Language Sciences Division, University College
London, London, United Kingdom.
Ortega, Alonso. Centro de Investigacion del Desarrollo en Cognicion y Lenguaje,
CIDCL-UV, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, Chile.
Gaete, Marcelo. Escuela de Psicologia, Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile.
Veliz, Marcela. Escuela de Psicologia, Universidad Arturo Prat, Iquique, Chile.
Lira, Juan. Departamento de Psicologia, Facultad de Ciencias Sociales, Universidad
de Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.
Perez Salas, Claudia Paz. Departamento de Psicologia, Facultad de Ciencias
Sociales, Universidad de Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
33.
  
The protective effect of PK11195 on D-galactose-induced amnestic mild cognitive
impairment in rats.
Ye C, Lin L, Zhang P, Chen Y, Huang J, Lin X
Annals of Translational Medicine. 8(18):1190, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33241039
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the preventive effect of translocator
protein 18kDa (TSPO) ligand PK11195 on amnestic mild cognitive impairment
(aMCI), as well as its influence on astrocytes, in order to identify effective ways to
prevent aMCI.
METHODS: Male SD rats were randomly divided into control group (n=10), aMCI
group (n=10), PK11195 group (n=10), PK11195 + D-gal group (n=10). The
preventive effect of PK11195 on aMCI in rats was evaluated. The cognitive function
of rats in four different treatment groups was determined using the Morris water maze
(MWM), as well as whole-brain pathology and immunofluorescence of rat brain
tissue.
RESULTS: The results of the MWM behavioral test showed that rats pre-treated with
PK11195 had improved escape latency and a higher number of platform crossings
compared with the aMCI model rats. PK11195 was also shown to prevent the D-
galactose (D-gal)-induced senescence of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA1
region and to inhibit the apoptosis of astrocytes. At the same time, compared with the
aMCI model rats, the TSPO in the brain tissue of rats pretreated with PK11195 had a
lower distribution density.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results prove that PK11195 can effectively prevent D-gal-
induced decline of learning and memory function as well as inhibit abnormal changes
of related cells.Copyright 2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Ye, Chen, Lin, Lanying, Zhang, Peiling, Chen, Yi, Huang, Jinghao, Lin, Xianzhong
Institution
Ye, Chen. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.   Ye, Chen. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Lanying. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Lanying. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Zhang, Peiling. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Zhang, Peiling. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Chen, Yi. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Chen, Yi. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Huang, Jinghao. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Huang, Jinghao. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou,
China.
Lin, Xianzhong. Department of Anesthesiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
Lin, Xianzhong. Institute of Anesthesiology, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
34.
  
The association of smart mobile phone usage with cognitive function impairment in
Saudi adult population.
Al-Khlaiwi TM, Habib SS, Meo SA, Alqhtani MS, Ogailan AA
Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences. 36(7):1628-1633, 2020 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33235587
BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Excessive use of mobile phones has raised a great
concern about adverse health effects on human health. The present study's aim was
to investigate the association of the usage of smartphones with cognitive function
impairment in the Saudi adult population.
METHODS: The present cross-sectional study was conducted in the Department of
Physiology, College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia during
September 2019 to January 2020. A total of 251 Saudi adults who were using mobile
phones were recruited, and knowledge, attitude and practices were assessed by
interview using a predesigned proforma. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment(MOCA) tool was employed to assess the cognitive functions, comparison was made
between daily mobile phone usage group and their correlated Montreal Cognitive
Score (MOCA).
RESULTS: The mean age for 251 Saudi adult participants was 32.43 +/- 12.8 years.
More than 80% of the participants used their mobile phone for more than two hours
daily. About 61% of the participants were not aware of the side effect of the radiation
generated from mobile phone. The participants showed a decrease in MOCA score
with increased daily mobile phone usage (MOCA=26.8 for <1 hour daily usage, 26.1
for 1-2 hours, and 24.6 for >2 hours with P< 0.05). In addition, participants showed
decreased MOCA score by keeping their mobile phone near their pillow while
sleeping; MOCA=24.35 for near pillow groups and >25.5 for the groups that placed
their mobile phone away from the pillow.
CONCLUSIONS: Excessive use of mobile phones can cause cognitive function
impairment. Strict policies must be implemented to control the use of smartphones in
order to minimize the effects on mobile phone radiation on cognition. The media has
to be on the forefront in educating the public about the proper usage of mobile
phones.
Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Al-Khlaiwi, Thamir M, Habib, Syed Shahid, Meo, Sultan Ayoub, Alqhtani, Mohammed
S, Ogailan, Abeer A
Institution
Al-Khlaiwi, Thamir M. Thamir M. Al-Khlaiwi Department of Physiology, College of
Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.   Habib, Syed Shahid. Syed
Shahid Habib Department of Physiology, College of Medicine, King Saud University,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Meo, Sultan Ayoub. Sultan Ayoub Meo Department of Physiology, College of
Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Alqhtani, Mohammed S. Mohammed S Alqhtani Medical Student, College of
Medicine, King Saud University.
Ogailan, Abeer A. Abeer A. Ogailan Independent Researcher.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
35.
  
Effect of Pentoxifylline on Apoptotic-Related Gene Expression Profile, Learning and
Memory Impairment Induced by Systemic Lipopolysaccharide Administration in the
Rat Hippocampus.
Akbari Z, Reisi P, Torkaman-Boutorabi A, Farahmandfar M
International Journal of Preventive Medicine. 11:151, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33209221
BACKGROUND: Inflammation is one of the effective factors, in the development offunctional disorders of the nervous system. Pentoxifylline (PTX) has an inhibitory
effect on inflammatory factors. Therefore the aim of this study was to evaluate the
effect of PTX on learning, memory and expression of genes, involved in neuronal
survival in the rat hippocampus, following systemic lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
injection.
METHODS: Male rats were randomly divided into 5 groups of control, LPS and LPS
+ PTX, receiving doses of 10, 25 and 50 mg/kg of PTX, respectively. In LPS groups,
LPS was injected (5 mg/kg; intraperitoneal), and after one week, rats received
intraperitoneal PTX for 14 days, in the treatment groups. Learning and memory were
evaluated by object location task (OLT) and novel object recognition (NOR). Then,
the hippocampus was dissected in order to measure the expression of the associated
genes.
RESULTS: The results showed that peripheral LPS injection caused significant
damage (P < 0.01) to learning and memory with respect to controls, but PTX with
doses of 10 and 50 mg/kg prevented these impairments. Results from reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) showed that LPS significantly
increased the expression of Bax and TNF- alpha with respect to controls. PTX in the
LPS + PTX group significantly increased the expression of Bcl-2, BAD and Caspase-
3.
CONCLUSIONS: Other than the increased Bcl-2 expression, PTX had no significant
effect on the expression of other genes, therefore further studies are needed to find
out how PTX improves the learning and memory impairments, following the
peripheral inflammation.
Copyright: © 2020 International Journal of Preventive Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Akbari, Zahra, Reisi, Parham, Torkaman-Boutorabi, Anahita, Farahmandfar, Maryam
Institution
Akbari, Zahra. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School of
Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.   Akbari, Zahra. International Campuses, Tehran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Reisi, Parham. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Torkaman-Boutorabi, Anahita. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies,
School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Farahmandfar, Maryam. Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School
of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.
Farahmandfar, Maryam. Electrophysiology Research Center, Neuroscience Institute,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 36.
  
Age- and Sex-Specific Prevalence and Modifiable Risk Factors of Mild Cognitive
Impairment Among Older Adults in China: A Population-Based Observational Study.
Fu J, Liu Q, Du Y, Zhu Y, Sun C, Lin H, Jin M, Ma F, Li W, Liu H, Zhang X, Chen Y,
Sun Z, Wang G, Huang G
Frontiers in aging neuroscience. 12:578742, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33192471
BACKGROUND: Minimal data are available on the prevalence of mild cognitive
impairment (MCI) in older Chinese adults. Moreover, the current information on MCI
shows important geographical variations.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to assess the prevalence and risk factors for MCI by age
and sex among older adults in a North Chinese population.
METHODS: In this population-based cross-sectional study, we enrolled a random
sample of 4,943 adults aged >= 60 years between March 2018 and June 2019 in
Tianjin, China. Of these, 312 individuals were excluded due to a lack of data (e.g.,
fasting blood test). As a result, 4,631 subjects were assessed. Individuals with MCI
were identified using neuropsychological assessments, including the Mini-Mental
State Examination and Activities of Daily Living scale, based on a modified version of
the Petersen's criteria.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) age of the 4,631 participants was 67.6 (4.89) years, and
2,579 (55.7%) were female. The overall age- and sex-standardized prevalence of
MCI in our study population was 10.7%. There were significant associations of MCI
with age [65-69 vs. 60-64 years, OR = 0.74; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.58,
0.96], physical activity (>=23.0 vs. <23.0 MET-hours/week, OR = 0.79; 95% CI: 0.64,
0.96), body mass index (BMI) (OR = 0.92; 95% CI: 0.89, 0.95), grip strength (OR =
0.50; 95% CI: 0.38, 0.67), hypertension (yes vs. no, OR = 1.44; 95% CI: 1.18, 1.77),
higher levels of sleepiness (OR = 1.80; 95% CI: 1.36, 2.37), and longer sleep
duration (OR = 1.40; 95% CI: 1.14, 1.72). The inverse association between BMI and
MCI was stronger in older age groups (P for heterogeneity = 0.003). Moreover, the
magnitude of association between triglycerides and MCI was different between the
sexes (P for heterogeneity = 0.029).
CONCLUSION: The age- and sex-standardized prevalence of MCI was 10.7% in the
study sample. Physical activity, BMI, grip strength, sleepiness, sleep duration, and
hypertension were associated with the prevalence of MCI. Additionally, triglycerides
and BMI might be differently associated with the presence of MCI for different sexes
and age stages, respectively.
Copyright © 2020 Fu, Liu, Du, Zhu, Sun, Lin, Jin, Ma, Li, Liu, Zhang, Chen, Sun,
Wang and Huang.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Fu, Jingzhu, Liu, Qian, Du, Yue, Zhu, Yun, Sun, Changqing, Lin, Hongyan, Jin,
Mengdi, Ma, Fei, Li, Wen, Liu, Huan, Zhang, Xumei, Chen, Yongjie, Sun, Zhuoyu,
Wang, Guangshun, Huang, Guowei
Institution
Fu, Jingzhu. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.   Fu, Jingzhu. Tianjin Key Laboratory of
Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Qian. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Qian. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Du, Yue. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.Du, Yue. Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public
Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Zhu, Yun. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Zhu, Yun. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Sun, Changqing. Neurosurgical Department of Baodi Clinical College of Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Lin, Hongyan. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Lin, Hongyan. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Jin, Mengdi. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Jin, Mengdi. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Ma, Fei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Ma, Fei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Li, Wen. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health, Tianjin
Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Li, Wen. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health, Tianjin,
China.
Liu, Huan. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Liu, Huan. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Zhang, Xumei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Zhang, Xumei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Chen, Yongjie. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Chen, Yongjie. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public
Health, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Sun, Zhuoyu. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Sun, Zhuoyu. Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Wang, Guangshun. Department of Tumor, Baodi Clinical College of Tianjin Medical
University, Tianjin, China.
Huang, Guowei. Department of Nutrition and Food Science, School of Public Health,
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
Huang, Guowei. Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environment, Nutrition and Public Health,
Tianjin, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
  
37.
  
Montreal Cognitive Assessment - Single Cutoff Achieves Screening Purpose.
Yeung PY, Wong LLL, Chan CC, Yung CY, Leung LMJ, Tam YY, Tang LN, Li HS,
Lau ML
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:2681-2687, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33192067
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The study evaluated the performance between
norm-derived age and education adjusted vs single cutoff scores of the Montreal
Cognitive Assessment, Hong Kong version (HK-MoCA) in classifying cognitive
impairment in Chinese older adults.
METHODS: Total scores of HK-MoCA were collected from 315 subjects (128 with
dementia, 122 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 65 normal) attending a
public district hospital-based cognition clinic from 2012 to 2017. The HK-MoCA total
scores were evaluated using different cutoffs. Norm-derived age and education
adjusted cutoff scores were at 16th, 7th, and 2nd percentiles. Comparison was made
with the single cutoff scores validated in a local study with 21/22 for MCI and 18/19
for dementia.
RESULTS: Single cutoff score of HK-MoCA differentiated MCI from normal with
sensitivity of 0.861 and specificity of 0.723. To detect dementia, its sensitivity was
0.922, and specificity was 0.923. In identifying cognitive impairment, the sensitivity
and specificity were 0.932 and 0.723, respectively. However, age and education
adjusted cutoff scores achieved high specificities at all levels of cognitive impairment
with trade-off of sensitivities. The accuracy of correctly classifying tested subjects into
appropriate groups was 85.3% if single cutoff was used though the consistency
between norm-derived cutoffs and expert diagnoses were only 59.0%, 54.2%, and
53.9% at 16th, 7th, and 2nd percentiles, respectively. The consistency decreased
with older age and lower education level, and majority of misclassifications were false
negatives.
CONCLUSION: HK-MoCA is a convenient screening tool to detect cognitive
impairment. Administration time is relatively short, and it has incorporated essential
cognitive domains. Single cutoff scores with inherent simple education adjustment
achieved screening purpose of mild cognitive impairment and dementia in Chinese
older adults.
Copyright © 2020 Yeung et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Yeung, Pui Yu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1817-5223   Chan, Chun Chung;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8118-9460 
Yung, Cho Yiu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5401-7030 
Authors Full Name
Yeung, Pui Yu, Wong, L L Louise, Chan, Chun Chung, Yung, Cho Yiu, Leung, L M
Jess, Tam, Yuen Yee, Tang, Lap Nin, Li, Hiu Sze, Lau, Mei Ling
Institution
Yeung, Pui Yu. Department of Medicine, Tung Wah Eastern Hospital, Causeway
Bay, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.   Wong,
L L Louise. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Chan, Chun Chung. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Yung, Cho Yiu. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Leung, L M Jess. Private Practice, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, Hong Kong SpecialAdministrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Tam, Yuen Yee. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Tang, Lap Nin. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Li, Hiu Sze. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital, Kwun
Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Lau, Mei Ling. Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, United Christian Hospital,
Kwun Tong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
38.
  
Prevalence and Predictors of Neurocognitive Impairment in Ethiopian Population
Living with HIV.
Salahuddin M, Manzar MD, Hassen HY, Unissa A, Abdul Hameed U, Spence DW,
Pandi-Perumal SR
HIV/AIDS Research and Palliative Care. 12:559-572, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33116918
BACKGROUND: Modern antiretroviral therapy has extended the life expectancies of
people living with HIV; however, the prevention and treatment of their associated
neurocognitive decline have remained a challenge. Consequently, it is desirable to
investigate the prevalence and predictors of neurocognitive impairment to help in
targeted screening and disease prevention.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred and forty-four people living with HIV
were interviewed in a study using a cross-sectional design and the International HIV
Dementia Scale (IHDS). Additionally, the sociodemographic, clinical, and
psychosocial characteristics of the patients were recorded. Chi-square and binary
logistic regression analysis were used to determine the level of significance among
the independent risk factors and probable neurocognitive impairment.
RESULTS: The point prevalence of neurocognitive impairment was found to be
39.3%. Participants ' characteristics of being older than 40 years (AOR= 2.81 (95%
CI; 1.11-7.15)), having a history of recreational drug use (AOR= 13.67 (95% CI; 6.42-
29.13)), and being non-compliant with prescribed medications (AOR= 2.99 (95% CI;
1.01-8.87)) were independent risk factors for neurocognitive impairment.
CONCLUSION: The identification of predictors, in the Ethiopian people living with
HIV, may help in the targeted screening of vulnerable groups during cART follow-up
visits. This may greatly help in strategizing and implementation of the prevention
program, more so, because (i) HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment is an
asymptomatic condition for considerable durations, and (ii) clinical trials on
neurocognitive impairment therapies have been unsuccessful.
Copyright © 2020 Salahuddin et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINEAuthor NameID
Salahuddin, Mohammed; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7306-5989   Manzar,
Md Dilshad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5571-3310 
Hassen, Hamid Yimam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6485-4193 
Abdul Hameed, Unaise; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6689-9958 
Spence, David Warren; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1664-6960 
Pandi-Perumal, Seithikurippu R; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8686-7259 
Authors Full Name
Salahuddin, Mohammed, Manzar, Md Dilshad, Hassen, Hamid Yimam, Unissa,
Aleem, Abdul Hameed, Unaise, Spence, David Warren, Pandi-Perumal,
Seithikurippu R
Institution
Salahuddin, Mohammed. Department of Pharmacy, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Mizan-Tepi University (Mizan Campus), Mizan, Ethiopia.   Salahuddin,
Mohammed. Pharmacology Division, Department of BioMolecular Sciences,
University of Mississippi, Oxford, Mississippi, USA.
Manzar, Md Dilshad. Department of Nursing, College of Applied Medical Sciences,
Majmaah University, Al Majmaah 11952, Saudi Arabia.
Hassen, Hamid Yimam. Department of Public Health, College of Health Sciences,
Mizan Tepi University, (Mizan Campus), Mizan, Ethiopia.
Hassen, Hamid Yimam. Department of Primary and Interdisciplinary Care, College of
Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
Unissa, Aleem. Malla Reddy College of Pharmacy, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.
Abdul Hameed, Unaise. Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing
and Health Sciences, Monash University, Australia.
Spence, David Warren. Independent Researcher, Toronto, ON M6K 2B4, Canada.
Pandi-Perumal, Seithikurippu R. Somnogen Canada Inc, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
39.
  
Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of Elderly Outpatients with Type 2 Diabetes
Mellitus in National Geriatric Hospital, Vietnam.
Nguyen AT, Pham HQ, Nguyen TX, Nguyen TTH, Nguyen HTT, Nguyen TN, Dinh
DTK, Phan HT, Nguyen SH, Tran BX, Latkin CA, Ho RCM, Ho CSH, Pham T, Vu
HTT
Diabetes, Metabolic Syndrome and Obesity Targets and Therapy. 13:3909-3917,
2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33116737
BACKGROUND: Diabetes-related complications have become increasingly prevalent
and complicated to manage, especially among frail older adults with co-morbidities,
poor physical function, and impaired cognition. Thus, knowledge, attitude, and
practice (KAP) of elderly diabetic patients play an essential role in controlling the
disease and its complications.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted on 176 diabetic
patients at the outpatient clinics, National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam fromAugust to November 2015. Patients' knowledge, attitude, and practice regarding
diabetes mellitus were assessed using a structured questionnaire. Exploratory factor
analysis and multivariate Tobit regression model were used to identify factors
associated with knowledge, attitude, practice about diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS: Of 176 diabetic patients, patients' knowledge was divided into two main
groups: "Diabetes definition and management" (mean score = 57.7 +/- 25.6) and
"Targets for diabetic control" (mean score = 66.1 +/- 30.4). Patients scored high
points of attitudes toward diabetes severity and its complications (mean score = 95.8
+/- 13.0); however, knowledge and practice scores were only moderate (mean score
= 68.1 +/- 16.8). There were only 8.5% of people having daily self-blood glucose
monitoring. Advanced age, low educational level, rural area, and duration of diabetes
less than 5 years were negative associated with knowledge, attitude, and practice
regarding diabetes mellitus. This study also shows that frailty and co-
morbidities/diabetic complications could impair patients' knowledge.
CONCLUSION: Older patients with diabetes had high levels of perceived severity
attitudes on diabetes mellitus. However, the knowledge and practice levels were still
inadequate. Pragmatic diabetic health literacy, counseling and education programs,
as well as home-based treatments are viable options to improve health outcomes.
Copyright © 2020 Nguyen et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9858-9268   Nguyen, Thu
Thi Hoai; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5024-2812 
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6738-7663 
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9265-1887 
Latkin, Carl A; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7931-2116 
Ho, Roger C M; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9629-4493 
Ho, Cyrus S H; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7092-9566 
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3132-3801 
Authors Full Name
Nguyen, Anh Trung, Pham, Hai Quang, Nguyen, Thanh Xuan, Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai,
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu, Nguyen, Tam Ngoc, Dinh, Dung Thi Kim, Phan, Hai Thanh,
Nguyen, Son Hoang, Tran, Bach Xuan, Latkin, Carl A, Ho, Roger C M, Ho, Cyrus S
H, Pham, Thang, Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh
Institution
Nguyen, Anh Trung. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.   Nguyen, Anh Trung.
National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Pham, Hai Quang. Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Da
Nang, Vietnam.
Pham, Hai Quang. Faculty of Medicine, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000,
Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thanh Xuan. Dinh Tien Hoang Institute of Medicine, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Thu Thi Hoai. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Huong Thi Thu. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Nguyen, Tam Ngoc. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Dinh, Dung Thi Kim. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Phan, Hai Thanh. Institute for Global Health Innovations, Duy Tan University, Da
Nang, Vietnam.
Phan, Hai Thanh. Faculty of Medicine, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000,
Vietnam.Nguyen, Son Hoang. Center of Excellence in Health Services and System Research,
Nguyen Tat Thanh University, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam.
Tran, Bach Xuan. Institute for Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Hanoi Medical
University, Hanoi 100000, Vietnam.
Tran, Bach Xuan. Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
Latkin, Carl A. Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
Ho, Roger C M. Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Ho, Roger C M. Institute for Health Innovation and Technology (iHealthtech),
National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Ho, Cyrus S H. Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Pham, Thang. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Pham, Thang. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh. Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Vu, Huyen Thi Thanh. National Geriatric Hospital, Hanoi, Vietnam.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
40.
  
Effects of HDAC inhibitors on spatial memory and memory extinction in SPS-induced
PTSD rats.
Mohammadi-Farani A, Pourmotabbed A, Ardeshirizadeh Y
Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences. 15(3):241-248, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33088324
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Neurobiological changes in memory processes
seem to play a role in the pathophysiology of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Memory itself is influenced by PTSD, too. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDAIs)
have shown promising results in the extinction of fear-related memories in animals
and hence they seem to be important for the treatment of PTSD. Data are scarce
about the effect of HDAIs in spatial memory formation/extinction in PTSD models.
The main goal of the present work is to find the effect of sodium butyrate (NaBu), as
an HDAI, on spatial memory and spatial memory extinction in rats exposed to single
prolonged stress procedure (SPS).
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Different doses of NaBu were administered
subcutaneously for 7 days in different groups of rats after SPS procedure. Learning,
memory, and extinction of memory were evaluated in the Morris water maze test of
spatial memory in 6 consecutive days.
FINDINGS / RESULTS: The results show that NaBu (0.5 mg/kg) alleviates impaired
learning and memory in SPS rats. It also facilitates the extinction of newly formed
memory in the animals.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Our data suggest that the administration of
HDAIs after a traumatic experience can prevent the aversive effects of SPS on
spatial memory. It also reinforces the notion that extinction of spatial memoryinvolves the same or similar brain circuitry that is involved in the extinction of fear
memories in PTSD patients.
Copyright: © 2020 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad, Pourmotabbed, Ali, Ardeshirizadeh, Yazdan
Institution
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad. Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Health
Institute, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Mohammadi-Farani, Ahmad. Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Medical
Services, School of Pharmacy, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences,
Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Pourmotabbed, Ali. Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Kermanshah
University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Ardeshirizadeh, Yazdan. Student Research Committee, Kermanshah University of
Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
41.
  
Protective effect of Mucuna pruriens against arsenic-induced liver and kidney
dysfunction and neurobehavioral alterations in rats.
Concessao P, Bairy LK, Raghavendra AP
Veterinary World. 13(8):1555-1566, 2020 Aug.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33061227
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Intoxication of arsenic in rats is known to result in
neurological effects as well as liver and kidney dysfunction. Mucuna pruriens has
been identified for its medicinal properties. The aim of the study was to investigate
the protective effect of aqueous seed extract of M. pruriens on sodium arsenite-
induced memory impairment, liver, and kidney functions in rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiment was divided into short-term treatment
(45 days) and long-term treatment (90 days), with each group divided into nine sub-
groups consisting of six animals each. Sub-groups 1 and 2 served as normal, and N-
acetylcysteine (NAC) controls, respectively. Sub-groups 3-9 received sodium
arsenite in drinking water (50 mg/L). In addition, sub-group 4 received NAC (210
mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily, sub-groups 5-7 received aqueous seed extract of M.
pruriens (350 mg/kg b.wt, 530 mg/kg b.wt, and 700 mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily and
sub-groups 8 and 9 received a combination of NAC and aqueous seed extract of M.
pruriens (350 mg/kg b.wt and 530 mg/kg b.wt) orally once daily. Following the
treatment, the blood was drawn retro-orbitally to assess the liver (serum alanine
transaminase [ALT], serum aspartate transaminase, and serum alkaline
phosphatase) and kidney (serum urea and serum creatinine) functions. Learning and
memory were assessed by passive avoidance test. Animals were sacrificed by anoverdose of ketamine, and their Nissl stained hippocampal sections were analyzed
for alterations in neural cell numbers in CA1 and CA3 regions.
RESULTS: In the short-term treatment, groups administered with M. pruriens 530
mg/kg b.wt alone and combination of NAC + M. pruriens 350 mg/kg b.wt exhibited a
significant improvement in memory retention, less severe neurodegeneration, and
decrease in serum ALT levels. In long-term treatment, groups administered with M.
pruriens 700 mg/kg b.wt alone and combination of NAC+M. pruriens 350 mg/kg b.wt,
respectively, showed better memory retention, decreased neural deficits, and
reduced levels of kidney and liver enzymes.
CONCLUSION: The seed extract of M. pruriens showed significant enhancement in
memory and learning. The number of surviving neurons in the CA1 and CA3 regions
also increased on treatment with M. pruriens. Serum ALT, serum urea, and serum
creatinine levels showed significant improvement on long-term treatment with M.
pruriens.
Copyright: © Concessao, et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Concessao, Preethi, Bairy, Laxminarayana Kurady, Raghavendra, Archana
Parampalli
Institution
Concessao, Preethi. Department of Physiology, Melaka Manipal Medical College,
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.   Bairy,
Laxminarayana Kurady. Department of Pharmacology, RAK College of Medical
Sciences, RAK Medical and Health Sciences University, Ras Al Khaimah, United
Arab Emirates.
Raghavendra, Archana Parampalli. Department of Physiology, Melaka Manipal
Medical College, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
42.
  
The Role of Nutrition and Inflammation on Cognition in a High-Risk Group for
Alzheimer's Disease.
Jackson JM, Bay AA, Barter JD, Ni L, Caudle WM, Serra MC, Wharton W, Hackney
ME
JAD Reports. 4(1):345-352, 2020 Aug 28.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33024941
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative
disease. Treatments are necessary to target people at high risk for AD. Inflammation,
particularly tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), appears to be an important
marker associated with the development of AD pathophysiology. Consuming a high-
fat diet induces tissue expression of TNFalpha.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the relationship between nutrition, circulatinginflammation, and cognition in African American women (age: M = 59.5 (+/-8.20) [42-
73] years) at risk for developing AD.
METHODS: Participants were split into high-fat and low-fat groups based on total
dietary fat consumption self-reported on the Lower Mississippi Delta Nutrition
Intervention Research Initiative Food Frequency Questionnaire (Delta NIRI FFQ).
RESULTS: A high-fat diet was associated with increased blood serum TNFalpha (p =
0.02) compared to the low-fat diet. In addition, global cognition scores were 9.0%
better in those who consumed a higher fat diet (p = 0.04). No significant differences
across groups were noted for executive function, dual-tasking, and visuospatial
performance.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that there may be multiple biological pathways
involved in AD development, suggesting the need for more holistic approaches to
mitigate AD-development risk.
Copyright © 2020 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jackson, Jordan M, Bay, Allison A, Barter, Jolie Denise, Ni, Liang, Caudle, William
Michael, Serra, Monica C, Wharton, Whitney, Hackney, Madeleine E
Institution
Jackson, Jordan M. Emory University's Rollins School of Public Health, Gangarosa
Department of Environmental Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.   Bay, Allison A. Emory
University School of Medicine Department of Medicine, Division of General Medicine
and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Barter, Jolie Denise. Emory University School of Medicine Department of Medicine,
Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Ni, Liang. Emory University School of Medicine Department of Medicine, Division of
General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Caudle, William Michael. Emory University's Rollins School of Public Health,
Gangarosa Department of Environmental Health, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Caudle, William Michael. Emory Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Atlanta, GA,
USA.
Serra, Monica C. Division of Geriatrics, Gerontology & Palliative Medicine,
Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio,
San Antonio, TX, USA.
Serra, Monica C. San Antonio Geriatrics Research, Education & Clinical Center,
South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.
Wharton, Whitney. Emory University School of Nursing, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Medicine Department of
Medicine, Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Nursing, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Atlanta VA Center for Visual and Neurocognitive
Rehabilitation, Decatur, GA, USA.
Hackney, Madeleine E. Emory University School of Medicine, Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
43.
  
Normative Data for the Symbol Digit Modalities Test in Older White Australians and
Americans, African-Americans, and Hispanic/Latinos.
Ryan J, Woods RL, Britt CJ, Murray AM, Shah RC, Reid CM, Wolfe R, Nelson MR,
Orchard SG, Lockery JE, Trevaks RE, Storey E, behalf of the ASPREE Investigator
Group on
JAD Reports. 4(1):313-323, 2020 Aug 04.
[Journal Article]
UI: 33024939
BACKGROUND: Processing speed, which can be assessed using the Symbol Digit
Modalities Test (SDMT), is central to many brain functions. Processing speed
declines with advanced age but substantial impairments are indicative of brain injury
or disease.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to provide SDMT normative data for
older community-dwelling individuals in the U.S. and Australia.
METHODS: The ASPREE trial recruited 19,114 relatively healthy older men and
women in Australia and the U.S. from the general community. All participants were
without a diagnosis of dementia and with a Modified Mini-Mental State examination
score of 78 or more at enrolment. The SDMT was administered at baseline as part of
a neuropsychological test battery.
RESULTS: The median age of participants was 74 years (range 65-99), and 56%
were women. The median years of education was 12. Ethno-racial differences in
SDMT performance were observed and normative data were thus presented
separately for 16,289 white Australians, 1,082 white Americans, 891 African-
Americans, and 316 Hispanic/Latinos. There were consistent positive associations
found between SDMT and education level, and negative associations between
SDMT and age. Mean scores for women were consistently higher than men with the
exception of Hispanic/Latinos aged >=70 years.
CONCLUSION: This study provides comprehensive SDMT normative data for whites
(Australian and U.S.), Hispanic/Latinos, and African-Americans, according to gender,
age, and education level. These norms can be used clinically as reference standards
to screen for cognitive impairments in older individuals.
Copyright © 2020 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Ryan, Joanne; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7039-6325 
Authors Full Name
Ryan, Joanne, Woods, Robyn L, Britt, Carlene J, Murray, Anne M, Shah, Raj C,
Reid, Christopher M, Wolfe, Rory, Nelson, Mark R, Orchard, Suzanne G, Lockery,
Jessica E, Trevaks, Ruth E, Storey, Elsdon, behalf of the ASPREE Investigator
Group on
Institution
Ryan, Joanne. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.   Woods, Robyn L. School of Public Health and
Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Britt, Carlene J. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Murray, Anne M. Berman Center for Outcomes and Clinical Research, Hennepin
Health Research Institute and Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine,
Hennepin HealthCare and University of Minnesota, MN, USA.
Shah, Raj C. Department of Family Medicine and Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center,Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.
Reid, Christopher M. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Reid, Christopher M. School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Western
Australia, Australia.
Wolfe, Rory. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Nelson, Mark R. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Nelson, Mark R. Menzies Institute for Medical Research, University of Tasmania,
Hobart, Australia.
Orchard, Suzanne G. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Lockery, Jessica E. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Trevaks, Ruth E. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Storey, Elsdon. School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
44.
  
Memory training combined with 3D visuospatial stimulus improves cognitive
performance in the elderly: pilot study.
Assed MM, Rocca CCA, Garcia YM, Khafif TC, Belizario GO, Toschi-Dias E, Serafim
AP
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(3):290-299, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32973982
Studies suggest that the engagement of aged participants in cognitive stimulation
programs can reduce expected cognitive decline associated with age.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of memory training (MT) associated with three-
dimensional multiple object tracking (3D-MOT) NeuroTracker (NT) in the elderly.
METHODS: Forty-four participants (>60 years of age) were recruited and randomly
distributed into two groups: experimental (EG; n=22) and comparative (CG; n=22).
Both groups performed 12 one-hour MT sessions, twice a week, consisting of
specific computerized stimuli associated with teaching of mnemonic strategies; 10
minutes of NT was part only of the EG's sessions. In pre- and post-training periods,
both groups were evaluated using a sociodemographic questionnaire,
neuropsychological assessment, as well as a specific measure offered by NT.
RESULTS: Both groups benefited from the MT and reported more positive feelings
regarding their memory and quality of life. However, the EG obtained better results in
tests consistent with the strategies trained and which involved attentional resources,
reaction time, visual processing speed, episodic, semantic, subjective and working
memory as well as aspects of social cognition.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that the combination of MT and 3D-MOTcontributed for a better cognitive performance in the EG. Thus, the results of the
present study encourage further research and the development of combined
cognitive interventions for the elderly population with and without cognitive deficits.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Assed, Mariana Medeiros; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0440-9914   Rocca,
Cristiana Castanho de Almeida; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5237-0957 
Khafif, Tatiana Cohab; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0806-1249 
Belizario, Gabriel Okawa; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8260-4857 
Toschi-Dias, Edgar; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5226-2956 
Serafim, Antonio de Padua; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0676-1500 
Authors Full Name
Assed, Mariana Medeiros, Rocca, Cristiana Castanho de Almeida, Garcia, Yolanda
Maria, Khafif, Tatiana Cohab, Belizario, Gabriel Okawa, Toschi-Dias, Edgar, Serafim,
Antonio de Padua
Institution
Assed, Mariana Medeiros. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.   Rocca, Cristiana Castanho de Almeida. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and
Department of Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao
Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Garcia, Yolanda Maria. Department of Geriatrics, Faculdade de Medicina da
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Khafif, Tatiana Cohab. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Belizario, Gabriel Okawa. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Toschi-Dias, Edgar. Health Psychology Program, Universidade Metodista Sao Paulo,
Sao Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil.
Serafim, Antonio de Padua. Neuropsychology Unit, Institute and Department of
Psychiatry, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
Serafim, Antonio de Padua. Health Psychology Program, Universidade Metodista
Sao Paulo, Sao Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Estudos sugerem que o envolvimento de idosos em programas de estimulacao
cognitiva pode reduzir o declinio cognitivo esperado associado a idade.OBJETIVO:
Avaliar os efeitos de um treinamento de memoria (TM) associado a um estimulo
visuoespacial tridimensional (3D-MOT) NeuroTracker (NT) em idosos.METODO:
Quarenta e quatro participantes (>60 anos) foram recrutados e distribuidos
aleatoriamente em dois grupos: experimental (GE; n=22) e comparativo (GC; n=22).
Ambos os grupos realizaram 12 sessoes do TM de uma hora, duas vezes por
semana, consistindo em estimulos computadorizados especificos associados ao
ensino de estrategias mnemonicas; apenas nas sessoes do GE foram utilizados 10
minutos com o NT. Nos periodos pre- e pos-treinamento, ambos os grupos foram
avaliados por meio de questionario sociodemografico, avaliacao neuropsicologica e
medidas cognitivas especificas do NT.RESULTADOS: Ambos os grupos se
beneficiaram do TM e relataram sentimentos mais positivos em relacao a memoria e
a qualidade de vida. No entanto, o GE obteve melhores resultados em testes
consistentes com as estrategias treinadas e que envolviam recursos atencionais,
tempo de reacao, velocidade de processamento visual, memoria episodica,
semantica, subjetiva e de trabalho, alem de aspectos da cognicaosocial.CONCLUSOES: Este estudo mostrou que a combinacao do TM e 3D-MOT
contribuiu para um melhor desempenho cognitivo no GE. Dessa forma, os resultados
do presente estudo incentivam novas pesquisas e o desenvolvimento de
intervencoes cognitivas combinadas para a populacao idosa com e sem deficits
cognitivos.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
45.
  
Dietary interventions and cognition of Alzheimer's disease patients: a systematic
review of randomized controlled trial.
Moreira SC, Jansen AK, Silva FM
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(3):258-282, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32973980
It is estimated that by 2030 there will be 82 million people in the world with dementia.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of dietary interventions on the cognitive
performance of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
METHODS: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCT) was
conducted in the Scopus, PubMed, and Cochrane databases. Thirty-two RCT were
included.
RESULTS: Omega-3 fatty acid showed positive effects at different doses. Fortasyn
Connect seemed to be effective in the early stages of the disease. Probiotic,
Ginseng, Inositol and specialized nutritional formulas seemed to have a positive
effect on cognition. Most of the primary studies presented poor methodological
quality, included patients with mild AD, small samples, and did not obtain significative
results for all the cognitive outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of most dietary interventions on cognition in AD patients
remains inconclusive, however, several nutrients, isolated or not, show potential to
improve cognitive function in AD, especially in its early stages.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Moreira, Sophia Camargos; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4369-3797   Jansen,
Ann Kristine; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0254-7045 
Silva, Flavia Moraes; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0730-5424 
Authors Full Name
Moreira, Sophia Camargos, Jansen, Ann Kristine, Silva, Flavia Moraes
Institution
Moreira, Sophia Camargos. Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Ringgold
Standard Institution - Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.   Jansen, Ann Kristine.
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Ringgold Standard Institution - Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
Silva, Flavia Moraes. Universidade Federal de Ciencias da Saude de Porto Alegre,Ringgold Standard Institution - Nutrition - Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Estima-se que ate 2030 havera 82 milhoes de pessoas no mundo com
demencia.OBJETIVO: Avaliar o efeito de intervencoes dieteticas no desempenho
cognitivo de individuos com DA.METODOS: Foi realizada uma revisao sistematica
de ensaios clinicos randomizados (ECR) nas bases de dados Scopus, PubMed e
Cochrane. Trinta e dois ECRs foram incluidos.RESULTADOS: Acidos graxos
omega-3 apresentaram efeitos positivos em diferentes doses. O Fortasyn Connect
mostrou-se efetivo em estagios iniciais. Probioticos, Ginseng, Inositol e formulas
nutricionais especializadas tambem demonstraram efeito positivo sobre a cognicao.
A maioria dos estudos primarios apresentou baixa qualidade metodologica, incluiu
pacientes com DA leve e amostras pequenas e nao obteve resultados significativos
para todos os desfechos cognitivos.CONCLUSOES: O efeito da maioria das
intervencoes dieteticas em pacientes com DA permanece inconclusivo; entretanto,
varios nutrientes, isolados ou nao, apresentam potencial para melhorar a funcao
cognitiva na DA, principalmente em seu estagio inicial.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
46.
  
Usnic acid improves memory impairment after cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injuries
by anti-neuroinflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-apoptotic properties.
Erfani S, Valadbeigi T, Aboutaleb N, Karimi N, Moghimi A, Khaksari M
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(9):1225-1231, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32963745
OBJECTIVES: Cerebral ischemia/reperfusion causes complex pathological
mechanisms that lead to brain tissue damage. Usnic acid is a lichen secondary
metabolite that has many different biological properties including anti-inflammatory
and anti-oxidant activities. Therefore, the objective of the current study was to
investigate the neuroprotective effects of usnic acid on apoptotic cell death,
neuroinflammation, anti-oxidant enzyme activities, and oxidative stress levels after
transient cerebral ischemia/reperfusion.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two male Wistar rats were randomly assigned
to three groups (sham, ischemia/reperfusion, and ischemia/reperfusion+usnic acid).
Ischemia was induced by 20 min occlusion of common carotid arteries. Injection of
usnic acid (25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and saline was done at the beginning of
reperfusion time. Morris water maze was applied to assess spatial memory. The
protein expression amount was measured using immunohistochemical and
immunofluorescence staining. Spectrophotometric assay was performed to
determine the levels of anti-oxidant enzymes.
RESULTS: Usnic acid significantly reduced caspase-3, glial fibrillary acidic protein-
positive and ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1-positive cells (P<0.001) and
enhanced spatial memory disorders (P<0.05) due to brain ischemia. In addition,
treatment with usnic acid improves effects in the antioxidant system followingcerebral ischemia (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that usnic acid has neuroprotective properties,
which possibly is applicable as a promising candidate for cerebral injuries caused by
ischemia.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Erfani, Sohaila, Valadbeigi, Tahereh, Aboutaleb, Nahid, Karimi, Naser, Moghimi, Ali,
Khaksari, Mehdi
Institution
Erfani, Sohaila. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ilam University, Ilam,
Iran.   Valadbeigi, Tahereh. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ilam
University, Ilam, Iran.
Aboutaleb, Nahid. Physiology Research Center and Department of Physiology,
Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aboutaleb, Nahid. Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Karimi, Naser. Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Razi University of
Kermanshah, Kermanshah, Iran.
Moghimi, Ali. Rayan Center for Neuroscience and Behavior, Department of Biology,
Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
Khaksari, Mehdi. School of Medicine, Shahroud University of Medical Sciences,
Shahroud, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
47.
  
Prevalence of potentially inappropriate prescriptions in primary care and correlates
with mild cognitive impairment.
Harasani K, Xhafaj D, Begolli A, Olvera-Porcel MC
Pharmacy Practice. 18(3):2017, 2020 Jul-Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32922574
BACKGROUND: Potentially inappropriate prescribing is clearly associated with
adverse health consequences among older people. Nevertheless, scarce evidence
exists regarding the prevalence of potentially inappropriate prescriptions (PIP) in
Albania, a Western Balkans country.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of PIP among older
Albanian patients in primary care and to determine the associated sociodemographic
and medical factors, including the presence of mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: Cross-sectional study in two primary healthcare centers located in two
different cities of Albania, a middle-income country in the Western Balkans. The
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) tool was applied to evaluate MCI. PIPs were
assessed by two trained pharmacists using the Beers criteria 2019 update.
Multivariate logistic regression analysis was conducted for possible risk factorspredicting PIP in the study population.
RESULTS: At least one PIP was identified among 40.23 % of the participants (174
older patients) and 10.35 % had more than one PIP. MCI was detected among 79.31
% of the patients. The most commonly represented drug groups in PIP were diuretics
(24.71 %), benzodiazepines in the presence of MCI and antidepressants (both 8.62
%). The lack of electrolytes monitoring was the most common reason for PIP.
According to the multivariate analysis, the only statistically significant association
observed was between PIP and number of drugs prescribed [three to four drugs (OR
3.34; 95% CI 1.65:6.76), five or more than five drugs (OR 4.08; 95% CI 1.42:11.69)].
CONCLUSIONS: About four out of 10 older Albanian patients experience PIP in
primary care. Further studies are needed for a comprehensive estimation of the
prevalence and factors associated with PIP, particularly among elderly with mild
cognitive impairment.
Copyright: © Pharmacy Practice and the Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Harasani, Klejda; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1877-6662   Xhafaj, Delina;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9166-8270 
Begolli, Anxhela; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9786-4443 
Olvera-Porcel, Maria C; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8374-064X 
Authors Full Name
Harasani, Klejda, Xhafaj, Delina, Begolli, Anxhela, Olvera-Porcel, Maria C
Institution
Harasani, Klejda. PhD. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Medicine of Tirana. Tirana (Albania). klejda.harasani@umed.edu.al.   Xhafaj, Delina.
PhD. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Medicine of Tirana.
Tirana (Albania). delinahudhra@gmail.com.
Begolli, Anxhela. MSc. Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Medicine of Tirana. Tirana (Albania). anxhelabegolli@hotmail.com.
Olvera-Porcel, Maria C. PhD. Public Foundation for Biomedical Research of Oriental
Andalusia. Granada (Spain). manme_olv@hotmail.com.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
48.
  
Impaired cerebral hemodynamics in late-onset depression: computed tomography
angiography, computed tomography perfusion, and magnetic resonance imaging
evaluation.
Wang J, Li R, Liu M, Nie Z, Jin L, Lu Z, Li Y
Quantitative Imaging in Medicine & Surgery. 10(9):1763-1774, 2020 Sep.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32879855
BACKGROUND: Late-onset depression (LOD) is often difficult to recognize when
there is an absence of a family history of depression and less severepsychopathology. Increasing evidence has shown that the development and course
of LOD symptomatology are associated with cerebrovascular comorbidities and
cerebral microvascular lesions. This study was designed to evaluate the associations
of LOD with macrovascular and microvascular changes in the brain by using a multi-
imaging method, including computed tomography angiography (CTA), CT perfusion
(CTP), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to explore the course and
pathomechanism of LOD.
METHODS: A total of 116 participants were divided into two groups. Participants
older than 60 years who met the diagnostic criteria of depression [International
Classification of Diseases (ICD), 10th Edition] were enrolled in the LOD group, and
the remainder were age- and sex-matched into the control group. The
cognitive/mood status of all participants was evaluated by an experienced
neuropsychologist. Global and regional mean cerebral blood flow (CBF) were
measured by CT cerebrovascular perfusion imaging; the stenosis of the bilateral
intracranial large arteries (internal carotid artery, anterior cerebral artery, middle
cerebral artery, posterior cerebral artery, and vertebral artery) was recorded by CTA;
regional white matter hyperintensity (WMH) loads were evaluated by fluid-attenuated
inversion recovery (FLAIR) MRI; and the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD) was
used to evaluate depression status.
RESULTS: Our key findings were the following: (I) participants in the LOD group
were more prone to intracranial arterial stenosis (81.1% vs. 74.6%), had more severe
stenotic arteries compared with controls (Z=2.024, P<0.05), and significantly more
participants with LOD had severe stenosis of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) (9.4%
vs. 0%, P<0.05); (II) there was a significant difference in hypoperfusion of the frontal
and parietal lobes superposed on global cerebral hypoperfusion between the two
groups (P<0.001); (III) and there was a significant difference in high WMH loads in
deep white matter (DWM) between the two groups (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A low global or regional perfusion state, moderate-to-severe
stenosis of MCAs, and high WMH loads could be used as imaging biomarkers to
indicate diffuse or localized cerebral macrovascular and microvascular pathology in
LOD.
Copyright 2020 Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Wang, Jinhong, Li, Renren, Liu, Meng, Nie, Zhiyu, Jin, Lingjing, Lu, Zheng, Li, Yunxia
Institution
Wang, Jinhong. Department of Medical Imaging, Shanghai Mental Health Center,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.   Li, Renren.
Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine,
Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Liu, Meng. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Nie, Zhiyu. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Jin, Lingjing. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Lu, Zheng. Department of Psychiatry, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Li, Yunxia. Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of
Medicine, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
49.
  
Effects of Levetiracetam Compared to Valproate on Cognitive Functions of Patients
with Epilepsy.
El Sabaa RM, Hamdi E, Hamdy NA, Sarhan HA
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1945-1953, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32848400
OBJECTIVE: This study compared the effect of levetiracetam (LEV) as monotherapy
to sodium valproate (VPA) as monotherapy on cognitive functions in patients with
epilepsy.
METHODS: This was a comparative prospective study on 50 patients with newly
diagnosed epilepsy started on antiseizure medications. Patients were selected from
the neurology-outpatient clinics at Minia University Hospital, Minia, Egypt. They were
divided into two groups: group treated with LEV and group treated with VPA. All
patients were subjected to cognitive function assessment using reaction-time tests,
trail-making tests, and Wisconsin card-sorting test before treatment and 3 months
after treatment.
RESULTS: Both groups of patients showed reduction in seizure frequency. However,
patients on LEV showed significant improvement in measured cognitive functions 3
months after starting treatment, while patients in the VPA group showed significant
impairment in measured cognitive functions 3 months after starting treatment.
CONCLUSION: Both groups of patients showed reduction in seizure frequency.
However, patients on LEV showed significant improvement in measured cognitive
functions 3 months after starting treatment, while patients in the VPA group showed
significant impairment in measured cognitive functions 3 months after starting
treatment.
Copyright © 2020 El Sabaa et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
El Sabaa, Ramy M, Hamdi, Emad, Hamdy, Nermin Aly, Sarhan, Hatem A
Institution
El Sabaa, Ramy M. Clinical Pharmacy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Deraya
University, Minia, Egypt.   Hamdi, Emad. Deraya University President, Minia, Egypt.
Hamdi, Emad. Psychiatry Department, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo,
Egypt.
Hamdy, Nermin Aly. Neurology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University,
Minia, Egypt.
Sarhan, Hatem A. Pharmaceutics Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia
University, Minia, Egypt.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
50.
  
Prediction of Amyloid Positivity in Mild Cognitive Impairment Using Fully Automated
Brain Segmentation Software.
Kang KM, Sohn CH, Byun MS, Lee JH, Yi D, Lee Y, Lee JY, Kim YK, Sohn BK, Yoo
RE, Yun TJ, Choi SH, Kim JH, Lee DY, KBASE Research Group
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1745-1754, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32801709
OBJECTIVE: To assess the predictive ability of regional volume information provided
by fully automated brain segmentation software for cerebral amyloid positivity in mild
cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: This study included 130 subjects with amnestic MCI who participated in
the Korean brain aging study of early diagnosis and prediction of Alzheimer's
disease, an ongoing prospective cohort. All participants underwent comprehensive
clinical assessment as well as 11C-labeled Pittsburgh compound PET/MRI scans.
The predictive ability of volumetric results provided by automated brain segmentation
software was evaluated using binary logistic regression and receiver operating
characteristic curve analysis.
RESULTS: Subjects were divided into two groups: one with Abeta deposition (58
subjects) and one without Abeta deposition (72 subjects). Among the varied
volumetric information provided, the hippocampal volume percentage of intracranial
volume (%HC/ICV), normative percentiles of hippocampal volume (HCnorm), and
gray matter volume were associated with amyloid-beta (Abeta) positivity (all P <
0.01). Multivariate analyses revealed that both %HC/ICV and HCnorm were
independent significant predictors of Abeta positivity (all P < 0.001). In addition,
prediction scores derived from %HC/ICV with age and HCnorm showed moderate
accuracy in predicting Abeta positivity in MCI subjects (the areas under the curve:
0.739 and 0.723, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Relative hippocampal volume measures provided by automated
brain segmentation software can be useful for screening cerebral Abeta positivity in
clinical practice for patients with amnestic MCI. The information may also help
clinicians interpret structural MRI to predict outcomes and determine early
intervention for delaying the progression to Alzheimer's disease dementia.
Copyright © 2020 Kang et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Kang, Koung Mi; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9643-2008   Sohn, Chul-Ho;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0039-5746 
Byun, Min Soo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3159-4510 
Yi, Dahyun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0860-0946 
Lee, Jun-Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5893-3124 
Sohn, Bo Kyung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1444-1099 
Yoo, Roh-Eul; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5625-5921 
Yun, Tae Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8441-4574 
Kim, Ji-Hoon; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6349-6950 
Lee, Dong Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8976-8320 
Authors Full Name
Kang, Koung Mi, Sohn, Chul-Ho, Byun, Min Soo, Lee, Jun Ho, Yi, Dahyun, Lee,Younghwa, Lee, Jun-Young, Kim, Yu Kyeong, Sohn, Bo Kyung, Yoo, Roh-Eul, Yun,
Tae Jin, Choi, Seung Hong, Kim, Ji-Hoon, Lee, Dong Young, KBASE Research
Group
Institution
Kang, Koung Mi. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.   Sohn, Chul-Ho. Department of Radiology, Seoul National
University Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of
Korea.
Byun, Min Soo. Medical Research Center Seoul National University, Institute of
Human Behavioral Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Jun Ho. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Yi, Dahyun. Medical Research Center Seoul National University, Institute of Human
Behavioral Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Younghwa. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Lee, Jun-Young. Department of Neuropsychiatry, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Yu Kyeong. Department of Nuclear Medicine, SMG-SNU Boramae Medical
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Sohn, Bo Kyung. Department of Psychiatry, Sanggye Paik Hospital, Inje University
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Yoo, Roh-Eul. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Yun, Tae Jin. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Choi, Seung Hong. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Kim, Ji-Hoon. Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,
Republic of Korea.
Lee, Dong Young. Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University
Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
51.
  
Effects of Cyperus rotundus Extract on Spatial Memory Impairment and Neuronal
Differentiation in Rat Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Shakerin Z, Esfandiari E, Razavi S, Alaei H, Ghanadian M, Dashti G
Advanced Biomedical Research. 9:17, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32775310
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common
neurodegenerative diseases in the older population and characterized by progressive
memory and cognitive impairment. Cyperus rotundus, a traditional medicinal herb,
has analgesic, sedative, and anti-inflammatory effects and also used to increase
memory in Islamic traditional medicine. This study was designed to consider theeffects of C. rotundus extract on memory impairment and neurogenesis in the Beta-
Amyloid rats' model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two male Wistar rats were randomly divided into
six groups (n = 7) for the evaluation of baseline training performance in the Morris
water maze test. Then, amyloid-beta (Abeta1-42) was injected in animal hippocampal
CA1 bilaterally in four groups. The first probe trial was performed 21 days after Abeta
injection. Then, 250, 500, and 750 mg/kg of C. rotundus extract were administered to
three Abeta-injected groups for 1 month; after that, the second probe trial was
performed, and rats were sacrificed after 28 days of the second probe trial. The
neurogenesis was detected in the hippocampus, by immunohistochemical staining.
RESULTS: This study showed that spatial memory increased in the behavioral test in
AD treated group with C. rotundus extract, compared with the AD group (P = 0.02).
Immunohistochemical staining revealed that neuronal differentiation has been
occurred in the hippocampus in the AD-treated group with C. rotundus extract
compared with the AD group (P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that C. rotundus extract, repaired spatial
memory impairment in the Abeta rats, through increased neurogenesis in the
hippocampus, which could be related to the flavonoid components in the extract.
Copyright: © 2020 Advanced Biomedical Research.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shakerin, Zeinab, Esfandiari, Ebrahim, Razavi, Shahnaz, Alaei, Hojjatallah,
Ghanadian, Mustafa, Dashti, Gholamreza
Institution
Shakerin, Zeinab. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.   Esfandiari, Ebrahim. Department of Anatomical Sciences,
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Razavi, Shahnaz. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Alaei, Hojjatallah. Department of Physiological Sciences, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Ghanadian, Mustafa. Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Dashti, Gholamreza. Department of Anatomical Sciences, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
52.
  
Percutaneous Endoscopic Gastrostomy Tube Removal for Patients With Advanced
Dementia: Case Series Study.
Hattori Y, Kojima T, Komura H, Ura N, Akishita M
Annals of Geriatric Medicine & Research. 23(1):27-30, 2019 Mar.
[Journal Article]UI: 32743282
BACKGROUND: Although the notion of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
(PEG) tube placement for patients with dementia has been changing, the number of
cases of PEG placement remains high as Japan has become a super-aged society.
However, there is insufficient research about the clinical course of dementia patients
with PEG, especially regarding PEG extubation after regaining full oral intake. This
case series aimed to reveal the demographic data of patients who successfully
underwent PEG extubation and to identify clinical factors that might help predict
eventual resumption.
METHODS: This retrospective case series was identified in a private, community-
based long-term care hospital in Sapporo, Japan. Inclusion criteria for the series
were: 1) age, >=75 years, 2) diagnosis of any type of dementia, and 3) resumption of
full oral intake after removal of PEG tubes.
RESULTS: Eight female patients were identified. Decreased oral intake was
triggered by acute medical conditions, such as infectious enteritis. A trial of oral
intake was initiated mostly by speech therapists. A majority of the patients ate pureed
food. The patients aged >=85 years with advanced dementia could be weaned from
PEG tubes.
CONCLUSION: The series indicates that even patients with limited life expectancy
could recover swallowing function by receiving appropriate guidance and care.
Constant evaluation for swallowing function even after PEG insertion may be
important for PEG extubation.
Copyright © 2019 by The Korean Geriatric Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Kojima, Taro; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3857-5267 
Authors Full Name
Hattori, Yukari, Kojima, Taro, Komura, Hiroaki, Ura, Nobuyuki, Akishita, Masahiro
Institution
Hattori, Yukari. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.   Kojima, Taro. Department of Geriatric Medicine,
Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
Komura, Hiroaki. Sapporo Nishimaruyama Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
Ura, Nobuyuki. Sapporo Nishimaruyama Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.
Akishita, Masahiro. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine,
The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
53.
  
Effect of Donepezil on Cognitive Impairment, Quality of Life, and Depression in
Multiple Sclerosis Patients: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
Shahpouri MM, Barekatain M, Tavakoli M, Badihian S, Shaygannejad V
International Journal of Preventive Medicine. 11:69, 2020.[Journal Article]
UI: 32742613
BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is one of the debilitating consequences of
multiple sclerosis (MS) with negative effects on daily life, individual and social
activities, quality of life (QOL), and depression. No approved medication is introduced
so far for affected individuals. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of donepezil on
cognitive performance, QOL, and depression in MS.
METHODS: This is a double-blinded randomized clinical trial conducted on 100
patients with MS during 2018. Patients were assessed prior to intervention
abbreviated mental test (AMT), prospective and retrospective mental questionnaire
(PRMQ), everyday memory questionnaire (EMQ), digit span test, Beck depression
inventory (BDI), and MSQOL questionnaire. Then patients were randomly divided
into two groups of treatment (daily regimen of 10 mg donepezil) and placebo for 3
months. Subjects were reassessed using the same instruments at the end of
intervention.
RESULTS: Fifty patients remained in each group at the end of study. The mean age
in donepezil and placebo groups was 31.9 +/- 5.89 and 30.65 +/- 5.43 years,
respectively. EMQ, PRMQ, digit span test, MSQOL, and depression scores improved
following donepezil therapy (P < 0.001) while no statistically significant difference
was found in the placebo group (P > 0.05). Comparison of two groups also showed
more favorable scores in donepezil group with respect to all assessment tools (P <
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Donepezil could effectively improve cognitive impairment in MS
patients. Also, its positive effect on QOL and depression could result in a smaller
number of interventions in this group of patients.
Copyright: © 2020 International Journal of Preventive Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Shahpouri, Mohammad Mahdi, Barekatain, Majid, Tavakoli, Mahgol, Badihian,
Shervin, Shaygannejad, Vahid
Institution
Shahpouri, Mohammad Mahdi. Isfahan Neurosciences Research Center, Alzahra
Research Institute, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Barekatain, Majid. Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Tavakoli, Mahgol. Department of Psychology, School of Educational Sciences and
Psychology, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.
Badihian, Shervin. Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
Shaygannejad, Vahid. Isfahan Neurosciences Research Center, Alzahra Research
Institute, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
54.  
Phytotherapy for Cachexia: Where Do We Stand?. [Review]
Kuchta K, Cameron S
Frontiers in Pharmacology. 11:917, 2020.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32733236
BACKGROUND: In contrast to Western medicine which currently offers no approved
pharmacotherapy options for cachexia, in Japan multi-component extracts of
medicinal plants are used with coverage by the national health insurance. This so
called "Kampo" medicine is an example of the modern concept of multi-
component/multi-target therapy. For the three traditional preparations Hochuekkito (),
Juzentaihoto (), and Rikkunshito (), a multitude of clinical research data relating to
cachexia has been published. These preparations are also referred to as "Hozai" ().
A similar concept is found in Russian herbal medicine, where the term "Adaptogen"
was coined for pharmacologically active substances which enhance adaptive stress
repose.
METHODS: Scientific literature-including original Japanese articles-was reviewed
regarding the effects of these herbal preparations on cachexia. Cachexia is a
complex set of symptoms including muscle atrophy with loss of weight, fatigue, and
weakness.
RESULTS: In a 1985 study by Kuroda et al., Hochuekkito showed efficacy in
involuntary weight loss and fatigue in 63% of 162 patients with genitourinary cancer.
For cancer-related fatigue, a significant improvement was reported within 2 weeks by
Jeong et al. in 2010. In patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, Hochuekkito showed
an overall improvement with 8-12 weeks of therapy in a 1997 study by Kuratsune et
al. In a 2005 randomized placebo-controlled trial by Satoh et al. on 13 geriatric Q1
patients in a 16-week treatment protocol, Hochuekkito showed significant
improvement of general health, physical functioning and the Profile of Mood States
(POMS). In 71 geriatric COPD patients in a 2009 placebo-controlled randomized
study, Tatsumi et al. found a significant body weight increase and a CRP, TNF-alpha,
IL-6 decrease over 6 months of therapy. For Juzentaihoto in 48 hepatocellular
carcinoma patients, Tsuchiya et al. 2008 documented a significantly longer
recurrence-free survival (49 vs. 24 months) as compared to the control group
(p=0.023). For the much simpler Rikkunshito prescription, a 2011 retrospective study
by Fujitsuka et al. on 39 Stage III/IV pancreatic cancer patients treated with
Gemcitabine (n=33) or Gemcitabine/Rikkunshito (n=6) showed a significantly
prolonged median survival with 224 vs. 378.5 days (p < 0.05). In a 2011 open-label
clinical study by Utumi et al. on geriatric cachexia in 6 dementia patients, treatment
with Rikkunshito for 4 weeks resulted in a significant body weight increase. In all the
above studies, the standardized dosage of 3x2.5 g/d extract granules for most
Japanese health insurance-covered Kampo extract-preparations was applied.
CONCLUSION: As there is currently no accepted pharmacotherapy option for
cachexia available in the West, a transfer of these East Asian gold standard
prescriptions into the European market would be desirable. We were further able to
demonstrate that the mTOR, interleucin, and melatonin pathways are modified by
herbal compounds which thus counteract cachexia. More research in this field is
urgently needed in order to provide new, effective treatments for cachexia patients.
Copyright © 2020 Kuchta and Cameron.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Kuchta, Kenny, Cameron, Silke
Institution
Kuchta, Kenny. Clinic for Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Oncology, University
of Gottingen Medical School, Gottingen, Germany.   Cameron, Silke. Clinic for
Gastroenterology and Gastrointestinal Oncology, University of Gottingen MedicalSchool, Gottingen, Germany.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
55.
  
Antiretroviral therapy improves neurocognitive impairment in people living with HIV?
A meta-analysis. [Review]
Gao C, Meng J, Xiao X, Wang M, Williams AB, Wang H
International Journal of Nursing Sciences. 7(2):238-247, 2020 Apr 10.
[Journal Article. Review]
UI: 32685622
OBJECTIVES: Although effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) has been used for
more than two decades, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder remains prevalent.
Thus, whether ART can improve neurocognitive impairment is controversial. This
review aims to explore the effects of ART on cognitive impairment in people living
with HIV (PLWH).
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted in eight databases
(PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, CNKI, VIP, China Biology
Medicine disc, and WanFang) to identify studies that compare cognitive function
between study groups who are administered and not administered ART. We
searched for articles published up to April 2019. Article evaluation and data
extraction were independently conducted by two reviewers.
RESULTS: Sixteen articles (6,694 participants)-14 cross-sectional studies and 2
cohort studies-were included in this meta-analysis. The cross-sectional studies
demonstrated that ART group did not perform better than the non-ART group (OR =
1.16; 95% CI, 1.03-1.30). However, the cohort studies reported a significant
improvement in cognitive function at three months (OR = 4.01; 95% CI, 2.35-6.85)
and six months (OR = 9.24; 95% CI, 1.71-49.96) after ART initiation compared with
the baseline data. No significant cognitive improvement was found in participants
younger than 55 years old, but the two cross-sectional studies showed that ART may
improve cognitive function in PLWH under 65 years old with poor physical condition
and immune status.
CONCLUSIONS: ART could improve cognitive function in PLWH with poor physical
condition and immune status, but it does not considerably improve cognition in the
entire PLWH population.
Copyright © 2020 Chinese Nursing Association. Production and hosting by Elsevier
B.V.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Gao, Chang, Meng, Jingjing, Xiao, Xueling, Wang, Min, Williams, Ann Barterley,
Wang, Honghong
Institution
Gao, Chang. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.
Meng, Jingjing. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.Xiao, Xueling. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan, China.
Wang, Min. The Institute of HIV/AIDS, The First Hospital in Changsha, Hunan, China.
Williams, Ann Barterley. Rory Meyers College of Nursing, New York University, New
York, USA.
Wang, Honghong. Xiangya School of Nursing, Central South University, Hunan,
China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
56.
  
Association of retinal nerve fiber abnormalities with serum CNTF and cognitive
functions in schizophrenia patients.
Liu Y, Huang L, Tong Y, Chen J, Gao D, Yang F
PeerJ. 8:e9279, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32676219
BACKGROUND: Recent studies have reported reductions in retinal nerve fiber layers
(RNFL) in schizophrenia. Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has shown protective
effects on both the neurogenesis and retina. This study aimed at investigating retinal
abnormalities and establishing their correlation with serum CNTF and cognitive
impairments in schizophrenic Chinese patients.
METHODS: In total, 221 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia and 149 healthy
controls were enrolled. Serum CNTF and clinical features of patients were
investigated. Cognitive functions were evaluated with Repeatable Battery for the
Assessment of Neuropsychology Status (RBANS). RNFL thickness and macular
thickness (MT) of both eyes were measured with optical coherence tomography
(OCT). T-tests and analysis of covariance were used to compare the variables
between the patient and control groups, while multiple linear regression analysis was
performed to determine the associations of RNFL thickness, CNTF and cognitive
impairments.
RESULTS: RNFL was found thinner in patients than in healthy controls (right: 88.18
+/- 25.84 microm vs.102.13 +/- 14.32 microm, p = 0.001; left: 92.84 +/- 13.54 microm
vs.103.71 +/- 11.94 microm, p < 0.001). CNTF was lower in the schizophrenia group
(1755.45 +/- 375.73 pg/ml vs. 1909.99 +/- 368.08 pg/ml, p = 0.001). Decline in RNFL
thickness was found correlated with course of illness and serum CNTF in patients (all
p < 0.05). Similarly, cognitive functions such as immediate memory and visuospatial
functions were also found correlated with decline in RNFL thickness.
CONCLUSION: Decline in RNFL thickness was associated with cognitive
impairments of schizophrenia and CNFT serum concentration. The possibility of
reduction in RNFL thickness as a biomarker for schizophrenia needs to be further
examined.
Copyright ©2020 Liu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full NameLiu, Yanhong, Huang, Lvzhen, Tong, Yongsheng, Chen, Jingxu, Gao, Dongfang,
Yang, Fude
Institution
Liu, Yanhong. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.   Huang, Lvzhen. People's
Hospital of Peking University, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Tong, Yongsheng. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Chen, Jingxu. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Gao, Dongfang. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Yang, Fude. Peking University Huilongguan Clinical Medical School, Beijing
Huilongguan Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
57.
  
The Impact of Educational Intervention on the Anxiety of Family Caregivers of the
Elderly with Dementia: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Zarepour A, Hazrati M, Kadivar AA
International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery. 8(3):234-242, 2020
Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32656275
BACKGROUND: Due to the increasing population of elderly and the consequent
increase in the number of chronic diseases such as dementia, the psychological
complications such as anxiety in the family caregivers increase. The aim of this study
was to determine the effect of educational intervention on the anxiety of family
caregivers of the elderly people with dementia.
METHODS: This randomized controlled trial was performed in the elderly Neurology
Clinics in Shiraz from May to August 2017. This study was conducted on 70 families
with elderly people with dementia who were randomly divided into an intervention
(receiving in groups for seven sessions of educational intervention) and a control
group (Conventional care). Data collection tool was Spielberger's Anxiety Inventory
(40-items, score=20-80). Data were analyzed by SPSS version 21 using ANOVA test
with repeated measures and independent t-test.
RESULTS: One and three months after the interventions, the mean scores of anxiety
in the intervention group were 70.51+/-3.78 and 70.31+/-3.43 and in the control
groups they were 76.45+/-3.45 and 76.22+/-5.08 respectively. The results showed
significant differences between the two groups regarding anxiety after the
intervention (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Educational programs held to promote and maintain the physical and
mental health of caregivers could reduce the anxiety of family caregivers of the
elderly with dementia. Trial Registration Number: IRCT2017080915426N4.
Copyright: © International Journal of Community Based Nursing and Midwifery.
Version ID1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarepour, Abdolrahman, Hazrati, Maryam, Kadivar, Ali Akbaar
Institution
Zarepour, Abdolrahman. Student Research Committee,Shiraz University of Medical
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Hazrati, Maryam. Department of Nursing, School of Nursing
and Midwifery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Kadivar, Ali Akbaar. Department of Neurology, school of Medicine, Shiraz University
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
58.
  
Pharmacological treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms of dementia: a network
meta-analysis protocol.
Huang YY, Dou KX, Zhong XL, Shen XN, Chen SD, Li HQ, Chen KL, Cui M, Dong Q,
Tan L, Yu JT
Annals of Translational Medicine. 8(12):746, 2020 Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32647671
BACKGROUND: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) of dementia are a common
issue in dementia patients which can lead to poor medical and functional outcomes.
Pharmacological interventions are its treatment of choice. However, whether to use
pharmacological treatments in this population and which drug should be preferred
remain controversial. We therefore aimed to compare and rank pharmacological
interventions for NPS according to their efficacy and acceptability profiles by
quantifying information from randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
METHODS: We will include all RCTs reported as double-blind and comparing one
active drug with another or with placebo that compare cholinesterase inhibitors
(ChEIs), N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor modulators, antipsychotics,
antidepressants, and mood stabilisers. Studies will be retrieved by searching
electronic databases, including Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials,
PubMed, MEDLINE, Clinicaltrial.govs, EMBASE, and with no date or language
restrictions. The primary outcomes were efficacy (change in overall symptoms) and
acceptability (all-cause discontinuation). The network meta-analysis (NMA) will be
conducted in R software within a Bayesian framework. The quality of evidence will be
evaluated using the Cochrane risk of bias tool, and the GRADE approach. We will
conduct subgroup analyses to assess the robustness of our findings.
RESULTS: The results of this study will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review will synthesize the available evidence on
the comparative efficacy of different pharmacological approaches in the management
of overall NPS, agitation, psychosis, apathy and depressive symptoms in dementia
patients. The results of the present NMA will influence evidence-based treatment
decisions for clinicians.
Copyright 2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Huang, Yu-Yuan, Dou, Kai-Xin, Zhong, Xiao-Ling, Shen, Xue-Ning, Chen, Shi-Dong,
Li, Hong-Qi, Chen, Ke-Liang, Cui, Mei, Dong, Qiang, Tan, Lan, Yu, Jin-Tai
Institution
Huang, Yu-Yuan. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.   Dou, Kai-
Xin. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University,
Qingdao, China.
Zhong, Xiao-Ling. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Central Hospital, Qingdao
University, Qingdao, China.
Shen, Xue-Ning. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Shi-Dong. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Li, Hong-Qi. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Chen, Ke-Liang. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Cui, Mei. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Dong, Qiang. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Tan, Lan. Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, Qingdao University,
Qingdao, China.
Yu, Jin-Tai. Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Huashan Hospital,
Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
59.
  
New Users of Herbal Medicine Containing Aristolochic Acids and the Risk of
Dementia in the Elderly: A Nationwide, Population-Based Study in Taiwan.
Chiou YE, Chien WC, Chung CH, Chang HA, Kao YC, Tsay PK, Tzeng NS
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 16:1493-1504, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32606702
BACKGROUND: Herbal medicine containing aristolochic acids (HMCAA) was used
for inflammatory and infectious diseases. This study aimed to investigate the
association between the usage of HMCAA and the risk of dementia.
METHODS: A total of 199 new users of HMCAA were enrolled, along with 597
controls without the usage of HMCAA, at a ratio of 1:3 - matched by age, sex, and
comorbidity, between 2000 and 2003 - from the National Health Research Institutes
Database (NHRID) of Taiwan, which contains two million randomly sampled subjects,in this cohort study. We used Fine and Gray's survival analysis (competing with
mortality) to compare the risk of developing dementia during a 15-year follow-up
period (2000-2015).
RESULTS: In general, HMCAA was not significantly associated with dementia
(adjusted subdistribution hazard ratio [SHR] = 0.861, 95% confidence interval [CI] =
0.484-1.532, p = 0.611) for the HMCAA-cohort, although differential risk was
observed among the groups at risk. The patients with usage of HMCAA aged  85
years were associated with a higher risk in dementia (adjusted SHR: 6.243, 95%
CI=1.258-21.084, p = 0.001), in comparison to those aged 50-54 years. Furthermore,
the patients with usage of HMCAA that had cerebrovascular accidents were
associated with an increased risk of dementia.
CONCLUSION: The usage of HMCAA was associated with the risk of developing
dementia in the patients aged  85 years.
Copyright © 2020 Chiou et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Chiou, Yueh-Er; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6832-2386   Chien, Wu-Chien;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3286-0780 
Chung, Chi-Hsiang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4576-9900 
Tsay, Pei-Kwei; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1749-1419 
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5881-7089 
Authors Full Name
Chiou, Yueh-Er, Chien, Wu-Chien, Chung, Chi-Hsiang, Chang, Hsin-An, Kao, Yu-
Chen, Tsay, Pei-Kwei, Tzeng, Nian-Sheng
Institution
Chiou, Yueh-Er. Department of Nursing, College of Medicine, Fu Jen Catholic
University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.   Chiou, Yueh-Er. Graduate Institute of Clinical
Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. Department of Medical Research, Tri-Service General Hospital,
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. School of Public Health, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei,
Taiwan.
Chien, Wu-Chien. Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National Defense Medical
Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. Department of Medical Research, Tri-Service General Hospital,
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. School of Public Health, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Chung, Chi-Hsiang. Taiwanese Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion Association,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Chang, Hsin-An. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School of
Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Chang, Hsin-An. Student Counseling Center, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Kao, Yu-Chen. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School of
Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Kao, Yu-Chen. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, Song-Shan
Branch, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Tsay, Pei-Kwei. Department of Public Health and Center of Biostatistics, College of
Medicine, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan 333, Taiwan.
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng. Department of Psychiatry, Tri-Service General Hospital, School
of Medicine, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.
Tzeng, Nian-Sheng. Student Counseling Center, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei, Taiwan.
Year of Publication2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
60.
  
Validation of the Argentine version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test
(MOCA): A screening tool for Mild Cognitive Impairment and Mild Dementia in
Elderly.
Serrano CM, Sorbara M, Minond A, Finlay JB, Arizaga RL, Iturry M, Martinez P,
Heinemann G, Gagliardi C, Serra A, Magliano FC, Yacovino D, Rojas MMEY, Ruiz
AS, Graviotto HG
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):145-152, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595883
The MoCA is a brief useful test to diagnose mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild
dementia (MD). To date, no Argentine cross-cultural adapted validations of the
Spanish version have been reported.
OBJECTIVE: To validate the MoCA in the elderly and study its usefulness in MCI and
MD.
METHODS: This study included 399 individuals over 60 years old evaluated in the
Cognitive-Behavioral Department (2017-2018). Patients with<3 years of education,
sensory disturbances, psychiatric disorders, or moderate-severe dementia were
excluded. The control group comprised cognitively normal subjects. Participants were
classified according to neuropsychological assessment and clinical standard criteria
into Control, MCI or MD groups. A locally adapted MoCA (MOCA-A) was
administered to the patients and controls.
RESULTS: Mean educational level was 10.34 years (SD 3.5 years). MoCA-A score
differed significantly among groups (p<0.0001). MoCA-A performance correlated with
educational level (r: 0.406 p<0.00001). Adopting a cut-off score >=25 (YI=0.55), the
sensitivity for MCI was 84.8% and for MD 100%, with specificity of 69.7%. When
adding a single point to the score in patients with <=12 years of education, the
specificity of the test reached 81%.
CONCLUSION: The MoCA-A is an accurate reliable screening test for MCI and MD
in Argentina.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Serrano, Cecilia M; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3699-1611   Sorbara,
Marcos; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6668-1895 
Finlay, John B; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3038-1276 
Arizaga, Raul L; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6697-9803 
Iturry, Monica; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8899-5812 
Martinez, Patricia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9879-0378 
Heinemann, Gabriela; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8167-559X 
Gagliardi, Celina; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9672-6118 
Serra, Andrea; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7939-4190 
Magliano, Florencia Ces; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7932-1290 Yacovino, Dario; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5617-2264 
Rojas, Maria Martha Esnaola Y; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6329-5801 
Authors Full Name
Serrano, Cecilia M, Sorbara, Marcos, Minond, Alexander, Finlay, John B, Arizaga,
Raul L, Iturry, Monica, Martinez, Patricia, Heinemann, Gabriela, Gagliardi, Celina,
Serra, Andrea, Magliano, Florencia Ces, Yacovino, Dario, Rojas, Maria Martha
Esnaola Y, Ruiz, Adelaida Susana, Graviotto, Hector Gaston
Institution
Serrano, Cecilia M. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.   Serrano, Cecilia M. Laboratorio de Memoria y
Equilibrio, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Sorbara, Marcos. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Minond, Alexander. Carrera Interdisciplinaria de Especializacion en Neuropsicologia
Clinica, Facultad de Psicologia, UBA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Finlay, John B. Duke University School of Medicine, North Carolina, USA.
Arizaga, Raul L. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar Milstein,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Iturry, Monica. Carrera de Investigador Clinico del Gobierno de la Ciudad de Buenos
Aires, Argentina.
Martinez, Patricia. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Heinemann, Gabriela. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Gagliardi, Celina. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Serra, Andrea. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar Milstein,
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Magliano, Florencia Ces. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Yacovino, Dario. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr. Cesar
Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Yacovino, Dario. Laboratorio de Memoria y Equilibrio, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Rojas, Maria Martha Esnaola Y. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr.
Cesar Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Ruiz, Adelaida Susana. Carrera Interdisciplinaria de Especializacion en
Neuropsicologia Clinica, Facultad de Psicologia, UBA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Graviotto, Hector Gaston. Neurologia Cognitiva y Neuropsicologia. Hospital Dr.
Cesar Milstein, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O MoCA e um teste breve e util para diagnosticar comprometimento cognitivo leve
(CCL) e demencia leve. Ate o momento, nenhuma validacao argentina com
adaptacao transcultural da versao em espanhol havia sido relatada.OBJETIVO:
Validar o MoCA em idosos e estudar sua utilidade no CCL e demencia
leve.METODOS: Este estudo incluiu 399 individuos acima de 60 anos avaliados no
departamento cognitivo-comportamental (2017-2018). Foram excluidos pacientes
com menos de 3 anos de escolaridade, com disturbios sensoriais, disturbios
psiquiatricos e demencia moderada a grave. O grupo controle foi cognitivamente
normal. Eles foram classificados de acordo com a avaliacao neuropsicologica e os
criterios clinicos padrao em Controles, MCI e demencia leve. A versao adaptada do
MoCA (MOCA-A) foi administrado aos pacientes e controles.RESULTADOS: Media
de escolaridade: 10,34 anos (DP: 3,5). O escore MoCA-A foi significativamente
diferente entre os grupos (p<0,0001). O MoCA-A correlacionou-se com a
escolaridade (r=0,406 p<0,00001). Com uma pontuacao de corte >=25 (IY=0,55), a
sensibilidade para CCL foi de 84,8% e para demencia leve 100%, com
especificidade de 69,7%. Adicionando um ponto unico a pontuacao em pacientes
com menos de 12 anos de escolaridade, a especificidade do teste atingiu81%.CONCLUSAO: O MoCA-A e um teste de rastreamento preciso e confiavel para
MCI e demencia leve na Argentina.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
61.
  
Cognitive stimulation program in mild cognitive impairment A randomized controlled
trial.
Gomez-Soria I, Peralta-Marrupe P, Plo F
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):110-117, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595879
Non-pharmacological cognitive interventions in mild cognitive impairment have
demonstrated promising results in preventing or delaying cognitive impairment and
functional disability. Cognitive stimulation seems to improve and maintain cognitive
and social activity.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the impact of a cognitive stimulation
program in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at the cognitive level on activities of daily
living (ADLs), and levels of anxiety and depression.
METHODS: A randomized controlled single-blind trial involving 122 non-
institutionalized elderly with a MEC-35 score of 24-27 was conducted. The
intervention group (n=54) received the intervention (10-week cognitive stimulation
program) and was compared with a control group (n=68) that received no
intervention. Follow-up assessments were conducted post-test and at 6 months post-
test. The primary outcome was cognitive function determined by changes in scores
on the Spanish version (MEC-35) of the Mini-Mental State Examination, while the
secondary outcomes were measured by the Barthel Index, Lawton and Brody Scale,
Goldberg Questionnaire (anxiety sub-scale) and the Yesavage Geriatric Depression
Scale (15-item version).
RESULTS: The intervention group showed a significant improvement in cognitive
function at both timepoints, post-test and 6-month follow-up. The Barthel Index was
higher in the intervention group, but only on the post-test analysis. The intervention
did not improve the performance of instrumental ADLs or depression or anxiety
levels.
CONCLUSION: The findings showed cognitive improvements in an elderly population
with MCI in the short and medium-term and improved basic ADLs in the short term.
Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT03831061.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7210-5704 
Authors Full Name
Gomez-Soria, Isabel, Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia, Plo, Fernando
InstitutionGomez-Soria, Isabel. University of Zaragoza Ringgold standard institution Zaragoza,
Aragon, Spain.   Peralta-Marrupe, Patricia. Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital
Ringgold standard institution Barrack Road, Exeter EX2 5DW United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Plo, Fernando. University of Zaragoza Ringgold standard institution Zaragoza,
Aragon, Spain.
Other Abstract
Publisher
As intervencoes cognitivas nao farmacologicas no comprometimento cognitivo leve
demonstram resultados promissores na prevencao ou retardo no comprometimento
cognitivo e na incapacidade funcional. A estimulacao cognitiva parece melhorar e
manter a atividade cognitiva e social.OBJETIVO: Nosso objetivo foi o de avaliar um
programa de estimulacao cognitiva sobre o comprometimento cognitivo leve no nivel
cognitivo, nas atividades da vida diaria, niveis de ansiedade e
depressao.METODOS: Um estudo randomizado, controlado e cego, foi
implementado em 122 idosos nao institucionalizados com escore 24-27 na versao
em espanhol do Mini Exame do Estado Mental (MEC-35). O grupo de intervencao
(n=54) recebeu a intervencao (programa de estimulacao cognitiva de 10 semanas) e
foi comparado com um grupo de controle (n=68) que nao recebeu nenhuma
intervencao. Avaliacoes de acompanhamento foram realizadas pos-teste e 6 meses
pos-teste. O desfecho primario foi a funcao cognitiva determinada pelas alteracoes
nos escores do MEC-35 e os desfechos secundarios foram medidos pelo Indice de
Barthel, Escala de Lawton e Brody, Escala de Lawton e Brody, Questionario
Goldberg (subescala de ansiedade) ) e a Escala de Depressao Geriatrica de
Yesavage (versao de 15 itens).RESULTADOS: O grupo intervencao apresentou uma
melhora significativa na funcao cognitiva nas duas medidas de tempo, pos-teste e 6
meses de acompanhamento. O Indice de Barthel foi encontrado mais alto no grupo
de intervencao, mas apenas na analise pos-teste. A intervencao nao melhorou o
desempenho de atividades instrumentais da vida diaria e niveis de depressao ou
ansiedade.CONCLUSAO: Os achados mostram melhorias cognitivas no
comprometimento cognitivo leve da populacao idosa em curto e medio prazo e
melhoraram as atividades basicas da vida diaria em curto prazo. Identificador do
Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT03831061.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
62.
  
Action observation combined with gait training to improve gait and cognition in elderly
with mild cognitive impairment A randomized controlled trial.
Rojasavastera R, Bovonsunthonchai S, Hiengkaew V, Senanarong V
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(2):118-127, 2020 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32595880
Owing to advancement of medical technology and current knowledge, the population
has a longer life expectancy, leading to an increase in the proportion of elderly.
OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to investigate the effect of action observation (AO)combined with gait training on gait and cognition in elderly with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI).
METHODS: Thirty-three participants were randomly allocated to action observation
with gait training (AOGT), gait training (GT), and control (CT) groups. The AOGT and
GT groups received a program of observation and gait training protocol with the
same total duration of 65 min for 12 sessions. For the observation, the AGOT group
watched a video of normal gait movement, while the GT group watched an abstract
picture and the CT group received no training program. All participants were
assessed for gait parameters during single- and dual-tasks using an electronic gait
mat system and were assessed for cognitive level using the Montreal Cognitive
Assessment (MoCA) at baseline, after training and at 1-month follow-up.
RESULTS: The results showed that the AOGT group had significant improvements in
gait speeds during single- and dual-tasks, as well as better MoCA score, while the
GT group had significant improvement only in gait speed.
CONCLUSION: The adjunct treatment of AO with gait training provides greater
benefits for both gait and cognitive performances in elderly with MCI.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1044-3174
Hiengkaew, Vimonwan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0842-6976 
Senanarong, Vorapun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2774-4187 
Authors Full Name
Rojasavastera, Rommanee, Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee, Hiengkaew, Vimonwan,
Senanarong, Vorapun
Institution
Rojasavastera, Rommanee. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.   Rojasavastera, Rommanee. Gait and Balance Group, Faculty of
Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.
Bovonsunthonchai, Sunee. Gait and Balance Group, Faculty of Physical Therapy,
Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand.
Hiengkaew, Vimonwan. Faculty of Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.
Senanarong, Vorapun. Division of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital,
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Com o avanco da tecnologia medica e do conhecimento atual, a populacao tem uma
expectativa de vida mais longa, levando a um aumento na proporcao de
idosos.OBJETIVO: O estudo teve como objetivo investigar o efeito da observacao de
acao (AO) combinada com o treinamento da marcha na marcha e cognicao em
idosos com comprometimento cognitivo leve (CCL).METODOS: Trinta e tres
participantes foram alocados aleatoriamente para observacao de acao com grupos
de treinamento de marcha (AOGT), treinamento de marcha (GT) e controle (CT). Os
grupos AOGT e GT receberam um programa de observacao e protocolo de
treinamento de marcha com a mesma duracao total de 65 minutos por 12 sessoes.
Na observacao, o grupo AGOT assistiu a um video de movimento normal da marcha,
enquanto o grupo GT assistiu a uma figura abstrata e o grupo CT nao recebeu
nenhum programa de treinamento. Todos os participantes foram avaliados quanto
aos parametros da marcha durante tarefas simples e duplas, utilizando um sistema
eletronico de esteira da marcha e avaliados quanto ao nivel cognitivo, utilizando a
Avaliacao Cognitiva de Montreal (MoCA) na linha de base, apos o treinamento e 1
mes de acompanhamento.RESULTADOS: Os resultados mostraram que o grupo
AOGT apresentou melhorias significativas nas velocidades da marcha durantetarefas simples e duplas, alem do escore MoCA, enquanto o grupo GT teve melhora
significativa apenas na velocidade da marcha.CONCLUSAO: O tratamento adjunto
da AO com o treinamento da marcha proporciona maiores beneficios tanto do
desempenho da marcha quanto do desempenho cognitivo em idosos com CCL.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
63.
  
Investigation of Aneusomy of Chromosome 21 in the Micronuclei of 13 Patients with
Early Onset Alzheimer's Disease Using Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization: A Pilot
Study.
Biglari S, Kamali K, Banihashemi S, Faal Sezavari A, Aghajanpour-Mir SM, Behjati F
Reports of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology. 8(4):446-453, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32582804
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative
and dementia disorders in people between the ages of 30 and 65. When symptoms
appear in this age group, the disease is referred to as early-onset Alzheimer's
disease (EOAD). Unfortunately, the symptoms are progressive and no current
treatments are effective.
METHODS: In this research, 13 patients, aged 37 to 65 years with symptoms of
early-onset Alzheimer's disease, were studied. First, patient lymphocytes were
isolated and cultured in RPMI 1640 medium using a special micronucleus (MN)
culture method. Next, the lymphocytes were harvested and prepared on slides. The
slides were then examined by fluorescent microscopy using a unique FISH protocol
specific for MNs. The patients were divided into groups aged 30-39, 40-49, and 50-
65.
RESULTS: We found that 19.76% of the MNs from our EOAD patients originated in
chromosome 21. Micronuclei originated in chromosome 21 in 21.20 and 16.52% of
patients without and with family histories of Alzheimer's, respectively. This difference
was not significant. Also, the percentage of micronuclei originating in chromosome 21
was not dependent on the patient age at the time of the study, or symptom onset age
or duration.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that the rate of micronuclei with the origin of
chromosome 21 is high in these patients. However, the micronucleus increased has
no significant relationship with age and duration of disease or family history of it.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Biglari, Sajjad, Kamali, Koorosh, Banihashemi, Sousan, Faal Sezavari, Arash,
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen, Behjati, Farkhondeh
Institution
Biglari, Sajjad. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Kamali, Koorosh. Department of PublicHealth, School of Public Health, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences.
Banihashemi, Sousan. Department of Public Health, School of Public Health, Zanjan
University of Medical Sciences.
Faal Sezavari, Arash. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen. Genetics Research Center, University of Social
Welfare and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Aghajanpour-Mir, Seyed Mohsen. Cellular & Molecular Biology Research Center,
Health Institute, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
Behjati, Farkhondeh. Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and
Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
64.
  
Sleep Quality and its various correlates: A community-based study among geriatric
population in a community development block of Purba Bardhaman district, West
Bengal.
Das S, Roy RN, Das DK, Chakraborty A, Mondal R
Journal of Family Medicine & Primary Care. 9(3):1510-1516, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32509641
BACKGROUND: In the elderly population, sleep problems are prevalent and have
known to be associated with many factors. There are many adverse consequences
of decreased sleep such as heart disease, diabetes, depression, accidents, impaired
cognition, and poor quality of life. Correlates of poor sleep quality have not been well
explored in Indian research.
OBJECTIVES: The present study aimed to measure prevalence of poor sleep quality
among elderly and its association with different factors.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted during June-November 2018 in a
randomly selected block of Purba Bardhaman district. Cluster random sampling was
applied to select required sample of 180 elderly people (>=60 years) from 30 villages.
Study tools used were Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), 5-Item Geriatric
Depression Scale (GDS), Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7), Global
Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ), and a pretested schedule for
sociodemographic and other variables. The study had approval from Institutional
Ethics Committee. Chi-square tests and multivariable logistic regression were
performed using SPSS V16.
RESULTS: Prevalence of poor sleep quality (GPSQI >=5) was 68.89%. Median
Global PSQI (GPSQI) score was 7.00 (4.00-11.00). Multivariable logistic regression
revealed that marital status, vital events in past one month, anxiety status, and
depression were significantly associated with sleep quality. Those who were
unmarried/widowed, having vital events in past one month in the family, and severe
anxiety and depression were having significantly higher odds of developing poor
sleep quality.
CONCLUSION: Poor sleep quality is high among elderly and measures toward the
significant correlates are thus emphasized.Copyright: © 2020 Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Das, Soumyaneel, Roy, Rabindra Nath, Das, Dilip Kumar, Chakraborty, Amitava,
Mondal, Raston
Institution
Das, Soumyaneel. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.   Roy, Rabindra Nath.
Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College, Burdwan, Purba
Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Das, Dilip Kumar. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Chakraborty, Amitava. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical
College, Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Mondal, Raston. Department of Community Medicine, Burdwan Medical College,
Burdwan, Purba Barddhaman, West Bengal, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
65.
  
Knowledge regarding Alzheimer's Disease among College Students of Kathmandu,
Nepal.
Baral K, Dahal M, Pradhan S
International journal of Alzheimer's disease. 2020:6173217, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32494366
INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's, a neurodegenerative disease, is becoming a growing
burden and the leading cause of disability among older people, and there is no cure
for it. It is set to be the biggest killer among the growing elderly population. The aim
of this study was to assess the knowledge of Alzheimer's disease among college
students in Kathmandu metropolitan city.
METHODS: This was a descriptive cross-sectional study among 385 randomly
selected bachelor students of Kathmandu metropolitan city. The questionnaire
included 2 sections. Section I addressed the sociodemographic characteristics of the
participants. Section II addressed or covered the Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge
Scale (ADKS) test. ADKS contains a set of 30 items, with true and false options. 1
point was given for the correct answer and 0 for the incorrect answer. The final sum
was then the total score of the participant. Frequency, percentage, mean, and
standard deviation were calculated, and the chi-square test was used to measure the
association between two categorical variables.
RESULTS: The mean ADKS (Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale) score is 15.45
+/- 2.95 with the lowest and highest mean total scores of 8 and 26, respectively.
49.5% of the respondents scored above the mean. The number of male and female
respondents who scored above the mean is 68 and 95, respectively, with p value0.71 and odds ratio 0.922. There is no association between gender and knowledge
level. Gender seemed to have no effect on the knowledge about Alzheimer's disease
on the basis of the Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale (ADKS). However, science
students had comparatively better knowledge about disease than management
students. The mean score of science and management is 15.9 and 15.04,
respectively, with p value 0.004. There is association between knowledge score and
faculty.
CONCLUSION: This study concluded that the knowledge level of college students on
Alzheimer's disease is below moderate. The findings concluded that there is
association between faculty and knowledge score.
Copyright © 2020 Kushalata Baral et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Dahal, Maginsh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1873-7601 
Authors Full Name
Baral, Kushalata, Dahal, Maginsh, Pradhan, Shneha
Institution
Baral, Kushalata. Department of Public Health, Nobel College, Pokhara University,
Nepal.   Dahal, Maginsh. Department of Public Health, Asian College for Advance
Studies, Purbanchal University, Nepal.
Pradhan, Shneha. Department of Public Health, Nobel College, Pokhara University,
Nepal.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
66.
  
Protein Kinase Ce in the Platelet and Hippocampal Tissue as a Diagnostic Biological
Marker in Alzheimer Disease.
Amiri S, Azadmanesh K, Dehghan Shasaltaneh M, Khoshkholgh-Sima B, Naghdi N
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 10(6):545-556, 2019 Nov-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32477472
INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder
characterized by the progressive loss of memory and other cognitive functions.
Protein Kinase Ce (PKCe) is an isoform that most effectively suppresses Amyloid
Beta (Abeta) production and synaptic loss.
METHODS: In this study, spatial learning and memory for treated rats were
evaluated by the Morris water maze test. The activity (total PKC), mRNA expression,
and protein level of PKCe in the platelet and hippocampal tissue were evaluated
using immunosorbent assay, real-time qPCR, and western blotting analysis,
respectively.
RESULTS: The traveled distance was significantly prolonged, and escape latency
significantly increased in Abeta-treated groups. PKC activity assay showed that there
was a remarkable difference between the Abeta-treated and sham-operated groupson days 10 and 30 in the hippocampus and also day 30 in platelet after the injection
of Abeta. A significant effect in PKC activity was observed between days 0 and 10,
days 0 and 30, as well as days 5 and 30. Abeta significantly downregulated the
PKCe mRNA expression in the hippocampus of rats on day 30; however, no
significant difference was observed in platelet. Western blot analysis demonstrated
that Abeta significantly reduced PKCe protein expression in the hippocampus of
treated groups on day 30.
CONCLUSION: The expression level of PKCe was downregulated following the
injection of Abeta in the hippocampus, but no significant difference was observed
between the AD and sham groups in platelet that may be due to the low
concentration of PKCe or duration of Abeta exposure in the rat brain.
Copyright© 2019 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Amiri, Sara; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2851-1219   Azadmanesh, Kayhan;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7165-9043 
Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1425-7347 
Khoshkholgh-Sima, Baharak; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6262-0462 
Naghdi, Nasser; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3315-372X 
Authors Full Name
Amiri, Sara, Azadmanesh, Kayhan, Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh, Khoshkholgh-
Sima, Baharak, Naghdi, Nasser
Institution
Amiri, Sara. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur Institute of Iran,
Tehran, Iran.   Azadmanesh, Kayhan. Department of Virology, Pasteur Institute of
Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Dehghan Shasaltaneh, Marzieh. Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences,
University of Zanjan, Zanjan, Iran.
Khoshkholgh-Sima, Baharak. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur
Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Naghdi, Nasser. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Pasteur Institute of
Iran, Tehran, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
67.
  
Ceftriaxone improves senile neurocognition damages induced by D-galactose in
mice.
Hakimizadeh E, Kaeidi A, Taghipour Z, Mehrzadi S, Allahtavakoli M, Shamsizadeh A,
Bazmandegan G, Hassanshahi J, Aflatoonian MR, Fatemi I
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(3):368-375, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32440324
OBJECTIVES: Ceftriaxone (Cef), a beta-lactam antibiotic, is accompanied byantioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. It has been shown that Cef has
beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease. In the current investigation, the effect of
Cef in a mice model of aging was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty male mice were equally aliquoted into four
groups as follows: Control (as healthy normal animals), D-galactose (DG) group
(treated with 500 mg/kg/day DG for 6 weeks), DG + Cef group (treated with DG plus
Cef 200 mg/kg/day for 6 weeks), and Cef group (treated with Cef 200 mg/kg/day for 6
weeks). A battery of behavioral tests was done to evaluate age-related
neurocognitive changes. The activities of catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase
(GPx), and superoxide dismutase (SOD), as well as the level of malondialdehyde
(MDA) in the brain, were measured by biochemical methods. Also, to determine the
brain damage, histopathological alterations in the hippocampus were measured
using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that neurobehavioral dysfunctions of DG can be
prevented by co-administration of Cef. We also found that Cef increases the activity
of SOD, GPx, and CAT as well as decreasing the level of MDA in the brain of aged
mice.
CONCLUSION: Based on our findings, Cef declines neurocognitive dysfunctions in
the DG-induced model of aging, possibly through its antioxidative properties.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Hakimizadeh, Elham, Kaeidi, Ayat, Taghipour, Zahra, Mehrzadi, Saeed,
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad, Shamsizadeh, Ali, Bazmandegan, Gholamreza,
Hassanshahi, Jalal, Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza, Fatemi, Iman
Institution
Hakimizadeh, Elham. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.   Kaeidi, Ayat. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.
Kaeidi, Ayat. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Taghipour, Zahra. Department of Anatomy, Rafsanjan University of Medical
Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Mehrzadi, Saeed. Razi Drug Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research
Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences,
Rafsanjan, Iran.
Allahtavakoli, Mohammad. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of
Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Shamsizadeh, Ali. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute of
Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Shamsizadeh, Ali. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Bazmandegan, Gholamreza. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research
Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences,
Rafsanjan, Iran.
Bazmandegan, Gholamreza. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School
of Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Hassanshahi, Jalal. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute
of Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan,
Iran.
Hassanshahi, Jalal. Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of
Medicine, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza. Research Center for Tropical and Infectious
Diseases, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Fatemi, Iman. Physiology-Pharmacology Research Center, Research Institute of
Basic Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan University of Medical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.
Fatemi, Iman. Research Center for Tropical and Infectious Diseases, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
68.
  
Tualang honey supplementation as cognitive enhancer in patients with
schizophrenia.
Yahaya R, Zahary MN, Othman Z, Ismail R, Nik Him NAS, Abd Aziz A, Dahlan R,
Jusoh AF
Heliyon. 6(5):e03948, 2020 May.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32426546
INTRODUCTION: Schizophrenia is a chronic mental illness with clusters of
symptoms, including cognitive impairment. This study aimed to explore the effect of
Tualang Honey (TH) on cognitive domains, especially as it pertained to the verbal
memory of schizophrenia patients.
METHOD: This was a cross-sectional study involved 80 individuals, diagnosed with
schizophrenia. The Malay Version Auditory Verbal Learning Test (MVAVLT) was
used. Data were analysed using SPSS 20.0 software. Intention to treat analysis was
applied.
RESULT: A comparison of the total learning score at eight weeks between the two
groups based on time effect and time-treatment interaction favoured TH group.
CONCLUSION: This study concludes that by supplementing schizophrenia patients
with 8-week of TH did improve total learning performance across domains in the
immediate memory among patients with schizophrenia.
Copyright © 2020 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yahaya, Rosliza, Zahary, Mohd Nizam, Othman, Zahiruddin, Ismail, Rusli, Nik Him,
Nik Ahmad Shaiffudin, Abd Aziz, Aniza, Dahlan, Rahima, Jusoh, Azizul Fadzli
Institution
Yahaya, Rosliza. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Zahary, Mohd Nizam. Faculty of Health Sciences, Gong Badak Campus, Universiti
Sultan Zainal Abidin, 21300 Kuala Nerus, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Othman, Zahiruddin. School of Medical Sciences, Health Campus, Universiti Sains
Malaysia, 16150 Kota Bharu, Kelantan, Malaysia.
Ismail, Rusli. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin,
Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.Nik Him, Nik Ahmad Shaiffudin. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti
Sultan Zainal Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu,
Malaysia.
Abd Aziz, Aniza. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Dahlan, Rahima. Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
Jusoh, Azizul Fadzli. Faculty of Medicine, Medical Campus, Universiti Sultan Zainal
Abidin, Jalan Sultan Mahmud, 20400 Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
69.
  
Effect of donepezil and memantine on improvement of cognitive function in patients
with temporal lobe epilepsy.
Oustad M, Najafi M, Mehvari J, Rastgoo A, Mortazavi Z, Rahiminejad M
Journal of Research in Medical Sciences. 25:29, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32419786
BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is a common complication of patients with
temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare the
effects of donepezil and memantine on improving the cognitive function of patients
with TLE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a clinical trial study, 70 patients with TLE were
divided into two groups of 35 each: 10 mg doses of donepezil (first group) and
memantine (second group) were applied for 16 weeks. The level of cognitive function
of patients in both groups before and after treatment was determined using Montreal
Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test.
RESULTS: The mean score of MoCA before and after intervention was 23.55 +/-
3.67 and 26.09 +/- 2.5, respectively, in the group treated with memantine, and the
mean score of intervention was significantly improved (P < 0.001). In the group
treated with donepezil, the score before and after the operation was 23.87 +/- 3.18
and 24.35 +/- 2.17, respectively, and no significant difference was observed in this
group (P = 0.38).
CONCLUSION: Hence, memantine was better than donepezil in the improvement of
cognitive impairment in patients with TLE.
Copyright: © 2020 Journal of Research in Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Oustad, Marjan, Najafi, Mohamadreza, Mehvari, Jafar, Rastgoo, Amin, Mortazavi,
Zahrasadat, Rahiminejad, Mitra
Institution
Oustad, Marjan. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.   Najafi, Mohamadreza. Department of Neurology,Medical School, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Mehvari, Jafar. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Rastgoo, Amin. Neurosurgeon, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Kangan, Bushehr
University of Medical Sciences, Bushehr, Iran.
Mortazavi, Zahrasadat. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Rahiminejad, Mitra. Department of Neurology, Medical School, Isfahan University of
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
70.
  
Experience of Intensive Care Nurses in Assessment of Postoperative Pain in
Patients with Hip Fracture and Dementia.
Krupic F, Grbic K, Senorski EH, Lepara O, Fatahi N, Svantesson E
Materia Sociomedica. 32(1):50-56, 2020 Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32410892
INTRODUCTION: Patients with hip fracture are one of the most demanding groups in
the health-care system. One of the most important tasks for nurses is to assess pain
and ensure the patients are pain free. Pain assessment in patients with dementia is a
well-known challenge for health-care professionals due to the patients' difficulties in
verbalising pain problems.
AIM: The aim of this study was to explore the experience of intensive care nurses in
assessment of pain in patients with hip fracture and dementia in the postoperative
setting.
METHODS: Data were collected through five focus group discussions using open-
ended questions and qualitative content analysis. Twenty-one intensive care nurses
(6 men and 15 women) participated in the focus group interviews.
RESULTS: Analysis of the data resulted in three main categories: "Communication",
"Visual assessment of pain", and "Practical issues" including a number of
subcategories. Some of the factors which influence assessment of pain in patients
with dementia are the lack of information and knowledge about the patients, which
causes loss of time and increased stress. The different forms of communication and
ways of assessing pain in these patients were other factors mentioned by nurses as
hindrances regarding assessment of the pain.
CONCLUSION: In order to improve assessment of pain, more knowledge and
information about the patients are needed and better coordination between the pre-
and postoperative departments regarding these patients. In this context, different
intervention studies on patient's hip fracture and dementia are needed to increase
knowledge and awareness regarding this group of patients.
Copyright © 2020 Ferid Krupic, Kemal Grbic, Eric Hamrin Senorski, Orhan Lepara,
Nabi Fatahi, Eleonor Svantesson.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Krupic, Ferid, Grbic, Kemal, Senorski, Eric Hamrin, Lepara, Orhan, Fatahi, Nabi,
Svantesson, Eleonor
Institution
Krupic, Ferid. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.   Krupic,
Ferid. Department of Anesthesiology. Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska
Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Grbic, Kemal. Clinical of Thoracic Surgery, University Clinical Center Sarajevo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Senorski, Eric Hamrin. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Lepara, Orhan. Department of Human Physiology, Shool of Medicine, University of
Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Fatahi, Nabi. Department of Learning and Ledarship for Health care Professionals,
Sahlgrenska Akademin at University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Svantesson, Eleonor. Department of Orthopaedics, Institute of Clinical Sciences,
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
71.
  
Vitamin E therapy prevents the accumulation of congophilic amyloid plaques and
neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus in a rat model of Alzheimer's disease.
Jahanshahi M, Nikmahzar E, Sayyahi A
Iranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 23(1):86-92, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32395206
OBJECTIVES: Vitamin E may have beneficial effects on oxidative stress and Abeta-
associated reactive oxygen species production in Alzheimer's disease. But, the exact
role of vitamin E as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis still needs to
be studied. Hence, we examined the therapeutic effects of vitamin E on the density of
congophilic amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in rats' hippocampi.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Wistar rats were randomly assigned to control (no
drug treatment), sham scopolamine (3 mg/kg)+saline and Sham
scopolamine+sesame oil groups, and three experimental groups that received
scopolamine+vitamin E (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day) daily for 14 days after
scopolamine injection. The rats' brains were collected immediately following
transcardial perfusion and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde. Pathological brain
alterations were monitored through Congo red and bielschowsky silver staining.
RESULTS: Scopolamine treatment led to a significant increase in the density of
congophilic amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus. IP
injection of vitamin E in three doses (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day) significantly
reversed the scopolamine-induced increase of the congophilic amyloid plaque
density and density of neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampus. Although vitamin E
(25 and 50 mg/kg/day) doses were also effective, but a 100 mg/kg/day dose ofvitamin E was more effective in the reduction of congophilic amyloid plaque and
neurofibrillary tangle density.
CONCLUSION: Vitamin E could exert a therapeutic effect in the reduction of
congophilic amyloid plaque and neurofibrillary tangle density in the hippocampus of
scopolamine-treated rats and it is useful for Alzheimer's disease.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Jahanshahi, Mehrdad, Nikmahzar, Emsehgol, Sayyahi, Ali
Institution
Jahanshahi, Mehrdad. Neuroscience Research Center, Department of Anatomy,
Faculty of Medicine, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Nikmahzar, Emsehgol. Neuroscience Research Center, Golestan University of
Medical Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Sayyahi, Ali. Neuroscience Research Center, Golestan University of Medical
Sciences, Gorgan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
72.
  
The Relationship between Polyneuropathy and Cognitive Functions in Type 2
Diabetes Mellitus Patients.
Timer SM, Timer E, Yukselen NP, Gokyigit MC
Sisli Etfal Hastanesi Tp Bulteni. 54(1):41-46, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32377132
OBJECTIVES: Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a risk factor for mild cognitive
impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. However, it is not
known which pathophysiological mechanisms lead to impairment in cognitive
functions in Type 2 DM. This study aims to compare the cognitive functions of
diabetic patients with and without polyneuropathy using standardized Mini-Mental
Test (MMSE) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale (MoCA) and to assess
whether the presence of polyneuropathy is a predictive factor for the development of
cognitive impairment.
METHODS: Patients with DM who underwent our EMG laboratory for polyneuropathy
between January 2014 and January 2015 were included in this study. Patients who
underwent electrophysiological examinations were evaluated for polyneuropathy.
Patients with polyneuropathy were classified as a patient group and other patients as
a control group. In all cases, MMSE and MoCA were administered. The demographic
data and educational status of the patients were recorded. Hypertension, coronary
artery disease, smoking and alcohol use were questioned. Their complaints, duration
of illness and the treatment they were receiving were questioned. Glycosylated
hemoglobin (HBA1C) values in the last three months and physical examination
findings of patients were recorded. Patients with and without polyneuropathy were
compared with statistical methods.RESULTS: Polyneuropathy was detected in 34 (42%) of the 81 patients who
participated in our study. The age, disease duration and HBA1C levels were
statistically higher in the polyneuropathy group than in the control group (p=0.024,
p=0.000, p=0.016). However, there was no statistically significant difference between
MMSE and MoCA scores of these groups. In both groups, there were no patients
scoring below the MMSE cut-off value of 24. Seventeen of the 34 patients (50%) in
the polyneuropathic group and 19 (40,4%) of the 47 patients in the control group had
scores below the MoCA cut-off value 21. However, there was no statistically
significant difference between the two groups. We also found that the mean MoCA
value of all DM patients was 21, which was the MoCA cut-off value. Also, factors
affecting cognitive functions in all Type 2 DM patients were evaluated by logistic
regression analysis, and it was found that duration of education was an independent
factor affecting cognitive impairment (OR=8.167; p=0.001).
CONCLUSION: In our study, we did not observe significant differences between
MMSE and MoCA scores of Type 2 DM patients with and without polyneuropathy.
However, the cross-sectional nature of our study makes it impossible to comment on
this issue. To clarify whether the presence of polyneuropathy is a predictive factor in
the development of cognitive impairment in Type 2 DM, there is a need for a larger
sample group and long-term follow-up studies. It has also been shown that patients
with Type 2 DM may have low scores according to the MOBID cut-off value even
though peripheral neurologic involvement findings are not observed. In the Type 2
DM population, it has also been shown that MoCA may be affected by education
level.
Copyright: © 2020 by The Medical Bulletin of Sisli Etfal Hospital.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Timer, Sibel Mumcu, Timer, Emin, Yukselen, Nihan Parasiz, Gokyigit, Munevver
Celik
Institution
Timer, Sibel Mumcu. Department of Neurology, Health Sciences University, Bagcilar
Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.   Timer, Emin. Department of
Neurophysiology, Istanbul University, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.
Yukselen, Nihan Parasiz. Department of Neurology, University of Health Sciences,
Fatih Sultan Mehmet Training and Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.
Gokyigit, Munevver Celik. Department of Electroneurophysiology, Beykent University
Vocational High School, Istanbul, Turkey.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
73.
  
Irisin protects the substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons in the rat model of
Parkinson's disease.
Zarbakhsh S, Safari M, Aldaghi MR, Sameni HR, Ghahari L, Khaleghi Lagmouj Y,
Rahimi Jaberi K, Parsaie HIranian Journal of Basic Medical Sciences. 22(7):722-728, 2019 Jul.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32373292
OBJECTIVES: Exercise ameliorates the quality of life and reduces the risk of
neurological derangements such as Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD).
Irisin is a product of the physical activity and is a circulating hormone that regulates
the energy metabolism in the body. In the nervous system, Irisin influences
neurogenesis and neural differentiation in mice. We previously demonstrated that co-
treatment of bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs) with a neurotrophic factor reduce
Parkinson's symptoms. Our goal in this project was to evaluate whether Irisin with
BMSCs can protect the dopaminergic (DA) neurons in PD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 35 adult male Wistar rat weighing (200-250 g) were
chosen. They were separated into five experimental groups (n=7). To create a
Parkinson's model, intranasal (IN) administration of the MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-
1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) was used. The BMSCs (2x106) and Irisin (50 nm/ml) was
used for 7 days for treatment after creation of the PD model. After completion of the
tests (4 weeks), their brains were used for the TUNEL and immunohistochemical
(IHC) assays.
RESULTS: One of the important results of this study was that the Irisin induce
BMSCs transport into the injured area of the brain. Co-treatment of the Irisin with
BMSCs increased tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons (TH+) in substantia nigra
(SN) and striatum of the PD mice brain. In this group, the number of TUNEL-positive
cells significantly decreased. Behavioral symptoms were better in the combination
group and Irisin simultaneously.
CONCLUSION: Co- treatment of Irisin with BMSCs protects the DA neurons from
degeneration and apoptotic process after MPTP injection.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Zarbakhsh, Sam, Safari, Manouchehr, Aldaghi, Mohammad Reza, Sameni, Hamid
Reza, Ghahari, Laya, Khaleghi Lagmouj, Younes, Rahimi Jaberi, Khojasteh, Parsaie,
Houman
Institution
Zarbakhsh, Sam. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.   Safari,
Manouchehr. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Aldaghi, Mohammad Reza. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Sameni, Hamid Reza. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department
of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Ghahari, Laya. Department of Anatomy, AJA University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.
Khaleghi Lagmouj, Younes. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Rahimi Jaberi, Khojasteh. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells,
Department of Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Parsaie, Houman. Research Center of Nervous System Stem Cells, Department of
Anatomy, Semnan University of Medical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
74.
  
Magnesium Increases the Protective Effect of Citicoline on Aluminum Chloride-
induced Cognitive Impairment.
Hosseini-Sharifabad A, Rabbani M, Seyed-Yousefi Y, Safavi M
Clinical Psychopharmacology & Neuroscience. 18(2):241-248, 2020 May 31.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32329305
OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer's disease is a popular neurodegenerative disorder which is
growing in the elderly people. Exposure to environmental pollutant like aluminum
could trigger or accelerate its involved mechanisms like tau phosphorylation. The
current study will evaluate the effect of alone or co-administration of Citicoline or/and
magnesium on the aluminum chloride induced memory impairment.
METHODS: Male albino mice were randomly divided into different groups (n = 7).
Memory impairment was induced via orally administration of 300 mg/kg Aluminum
Chloride for 28 days. Based on respective group, animals received 100, 250, 500
mg/kg of Citicoline or 50, 100, 150 mg/kg of Magnesium sulfate (MgSO4),
intraperitoneally. In co-administration, 50 mg/kg of MgSO4 injected concomitantly
with 100, 250, or 500 mg/kg of Citicoline. Rivastigmine (2 mg/kg intraperitoneally)
was used as a positive control. Memory was evaluated using the Object Recognition
Task (ORT) and Passive Avoidance Test (PAT).
RESULTS: The studied doses of Citicoline or MgSO4 when administered individually
showed significant increase in the discrimination index in ORT and latency time in the
PAT compared to the Aluminium chloride (AlCl3) treated group. Concomitant
injection of 50 mg/kg MgSO4 with the different doses of Citicoline strongly increased
the above indices values in comparison to each alone.
CONCLUSION: The findings show, individual administration of Citicoline or MgSO4
inverted the AlCl3-induced memory impairment in a dose independent manner. The
addition of MgSO4 to the Citicoline showed a synergistic effect in the PAT and likely
additive effect in the ORT.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8483-5560   Rabbani,
Mohammad; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5457-7185 
Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3765-7001 
Safavi, Maryam; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1356-0424 
Authors Full Name
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali, Rabbani, Mohammad, Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman, Safavi,
Maryam
Institution
Hosseini-Sharifabad, Ali. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.   Rabbani,
Mohammad. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
Seyed-Yousefi, Yasaman. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.Safavi, Maryam. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Isfahan
Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, I.R. Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
75.
  
Experimental Effects of Acute High-Intensity Resistance Exercise on Episodic
Memory Function: Consideration for Post-Exercise Recovery Period.
Loprinzi PD, Green D, Wages S, Cheke LG, Jones T
Journal of Lifestyle Medicine. 10(1):7-20, 2020 Jan 31.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32328444
BACKGROUND: The present experiments evaluated the effects of acute high-
intensity resistance exercise on episodic memory.
METHODS: Two experiments were conducted. For Experiment 1, participants (N =
40; Mage = 21.0 years) were randomized into one of two groups, including an
experimental exercise group and a control group (seated for 20 min). The
experimental group engaged in an acute bout of resistance exercises (circuit style
exercises) for 15 minutes, followed by a 5-min recovery period. Memory function was
subsequently assessed using a multiple trial (immediate and delay), word-list
episodic memory task (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, RAVLT), and then
followed by a comprehensive, computerized assessment of episodic memory
(Treasure Hunt task, THT). The THT involved a spatio-temporal assessment of what,
where, and when components of episodic memory. Experiment 2 evaluated if altering
the recovery period would influence the potential negative effects of high-intensity
resistance exercise on episodic memory function. For Experiment 2, participants (N =
51) were randomized into the same acute resistance exercise protocol but either with
a 10-min recovery period, 20-min recovery period, or a control group.
RESULTS: For Experiment 1, for RAVLT, the exercise group performed worse
(Fgroup x time = 3.7, p = .001, eta 2p = .09). Across nearly all THT outcomes, the
exercise group had worse spatio-temporal memory than the control group. These
results suggest that high-intensity resistance exercise (with a 5-min recovery) may
have a detrimental effect on episodic memory function. For Experiment 2, for RAVLT,
the exercise with 10-min recovery group performed better (Fgroup x time = 3.1, p =
.04, eta 2p = .11). Unlike Experiment 1, exercise did not impair spatio-temporal
memory, with the 20-min exercise recovery group having the best "where"
component of episodic memory.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, the results from these two experiments suggest that
acute high-intensity resistance exercise may impair episodic memory when a short
exercise recovery period (e.g., 5-min) is employed, but with a longer recovery period
(10+ min), acute high-intensity resistance exercise may, potentially, enhance
episodic memory.
Copyright © 2020 Journal of Lifestyle Medicine.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Loprinzi, Paul D, Green, David, Wages, Shelby, Cheke, Lucy G, Jones, Timothy
Institution
Loprinzi, Paul D. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.   Green, David. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Wages, Shelby. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Cheke, Lucy G. Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
UK.
Jones, Timothy. Department of Health, Exercise Science and Recreation
Management, Exercise & Memory Laboratory, The University of Mississippi, Oxford,
MS, USA.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
76.
  
Prevalence of psychiatric disorders among older adults in Jodhpur and stakeholders
perspective on responsive health system.
Patel M, Bhardwaj P, Nebhinani N, Goel AD, Patel K
Journal of Family Medicine & Primary Care. 9(2):714-720, 2020 Feb.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32318408
BACKGROUND: Ageing is an inescapable reality of human existence. The elderly
population of India is steadily increasing with growing mental health needs which
pose many challenges for the health care system. The aim of this study is to assess
anxiety, depression, and cognitive disorders among urban and rural elderly and to
explore the availability of social support mechanisms and a responsive health system
for elderly.
METHODS: This study is a mixed-method approach. For a quantitative study, a
community-based cross-sectional survey is conducted in Jodhpur, Rajasthan. A total
of 330 elderly persons aged 60 years and above are randomly screened for
depression (GDS), anxiety (GAD), and cognitive impairment (HMSE). Further for a
qualitative study, in-depth interviews are conducted with 7 key informants including
policy and program managers, service providers, and facilitators from the state. For
quantitative data analysis, Excel and SPSS are used and for Qualitative data
analysis, Thematic Framework Approach is used.
RESULTS: The mean age of the respondents is 67.9 +/- 7.8. The prevalence of
severe depression is 17%, severe anxiety is 10.3%, and cognitive impairment is
51.2%. The prevalence of all the three is more in rural elderly as compared to urban
elderly as well as more in female individuals as compared to males. Qualitative
analysis revealed that there are challenges in early identification of mental disorders
at both the levels: service providers and elderly. Psychological and financial issuesare also seen in elderly who are not supported by their children. There are cases of
fear for elder abuse and influence of western culture in the society.
CONCLUSION: There is a sizeable prevalence of psychological issues in elderly
population. Therefore, there is a need to adopt holistic and integrated psychogeriatric
services for the improvement of quality of life in elderly.
Copyright: © Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Patel, Mamta, Bhardwaj, Pankaj, Nebhinani, Naresh, Goel, Akhil Dhanesh, Patel,
Kamlesh
Institution
Patel, Mamta. School of Public Health, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.   Bhardwaj,
Pankaj. School of Public Health, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Bhardwaj, Pankaj. Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine, AIIMS,
Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Nebhinani, Naresh. Department of Psychiatry, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Goel, Akhil Dhanesh. Department of Community Medicine and Family Medicine,
AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Patel, Kamlesh. S.N Medical College, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
77.
  
Screening for Cognitive Frailty Using Short Cognitive Screening Instruments:
Comparison of the Chinese Versions of the MoCA and Qmci Screen.
Xu Y, Lin Y, Yi L, Li Z, Li X, Yu Y, Guo Y, Wang Y, Jiang H, Chen Z, Svendrovski A,
Gao Y, Molloy DW, O'Caoimh R
Frontiers in Psychology. 11:558, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32308636
BACKGROUND: Cognitive frailty describes cognitive impairment associated with
physical decline. Few studies have explored whether short cognitive screens identify
frailty. We examined the diagnostic accuracy of the Chinese versions of the Quick
Mild Cognitive Impairment (Qmci-CN) screen and Montreal Cognitive Assessment
(MoCA-CN) in identifying cognitive frailty.
METHODS: Ninety-five participants with cognitive symptoms [47 with mild cognitive
impairment (MCI), 34 with subjective cognitive disorder, and 14 with dementia] were
included from two outpatient rehabilitation clinics. Energy (work intensity) and
physical activity levels were recorded. Cognitive frailty was diagnosed by an
interdisciplinary team using the IANA/IAGG consensus criteria, stratified on the
Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS). Instruments were administered sequentially and
randomly by trained assessors, blind to the diagnosis.
RESULTS: The mean age of the sample was 62.6 +/- 10.2 years; median CFS score
was 4 +/- 1 and 36 (38%) were cognitively frail. The Qmci-CN had similar accuracy indifferentiating the non-frail from cognitively frail compared to the MoCA-CN, AUC
0.82 versus 0.74, respectively (p = 0.19). At its optimal cut-off (<=55/100), the Qmci-
CN provided a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 67% versus 91% and 51%,
respectively, for the MoCA-CN (<=23/30). Neither was accurate in separating MCI
from cognitive frailty but both accurately separated cognitive frailty from dementia.
CONCLUSION: Established short cognitive screens may be useful in identifying
cognitive frailty in Chinese adults with cognitive complaints but not in separating MCI
from cognitive frailty. The Qmci-CN had similar accuracy to the MoCA-CN and a
shorter administration time in this small and under-powered study, necessitating the
need for adequately powered studies in different healthcare settings.
Copyright © 2020 Xu, Lin, Yi, Li, Li, Yu, Guo, Wang, Jiang, Chen, Svendrovski, Gao,
Molloy and O'Caoimh.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Xu, Yangfan, Lin, Yangyang, Yi, Lingrong, Li, Zhao, Li, Xian, Yu, Yuying, Guo,
Yuxiao, Wang, Yuling, Jiang, Haoying, Chen, Zhuoming, Svendrovski, Anton, Gao,
Yang, Molloy, D William, O'Caoimh, Ronan
Institution
Xu, Yangfan. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.   Lin, Yangyang. Department of
Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University,
Guangzhou, China.
Yi, Lingrong. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yi, Lingrong. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital,
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
Li, Zhao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Li, Zhao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Mianzhu Hospital of West China
Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
Li, Xian. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yu, Yuying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Yu, Yuying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Second People's Hospital of
Foshan, Foshan, China.
Guo, Yuxiao. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Guo, Yuxiao. UCL Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, London, United
Kingdom.
Wang, Yuling. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital,
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Jiang, Haoying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of
Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
Jiang, Haoying. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Jilin Provincial People's
Hospital, Jilin, China.
Chen, Zhuoming. Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital
of Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
Svendrovski, Anton. UZIK Consulting Inc., Toronto, ON, Canada.
Gao, Yang. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College Cork, St
Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
Molloy, D William. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College
Cork, St Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
Molloy, D William. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Mercy University Hospital, Cork,
Ireland.O'Caoimh, Ronan. Centre for Gerontology and Rehabilitation, University College
Cork, St Finbarr's Hospital, Cork, Ireland.
O'Caoimh, Ronan. Department of Geriatric Medicine, Mercy University Hospital,
Cork, Ireland.
O'Caoimh, Ronan. Clinical Sciences Institute, National University of Ireland Galway,
Galway, Ireland.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
78.
  
Curcumin Effects on Memory Impairment and Restoration of Irregular Neuronal
Distribution in the Hippocampal CA1 Region After Global Cerebral Ischemia in Male
Rats.
Kamali Dolatabadi L, Emamghoreishi M, Namavar MR, Badeli Sarkala H
Basic and Clinical Neuroscience. 10(5):527-539, 2019 Sep-Oct.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32284841
INTRODUCTION: Global Cerebral Ischemia (GCI) causes neuronal damage with
subsequent neurological and cognitive impairments. Curcumin has anti-inflammatory,
antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties, which makes it a potential candidate for
improving GCI-induced impairments. This study aimed to investigate the effects of
curcumin on the neurological and memory deficits, as well as spatial neuronal
distribution in the Cornu Ammonis 1 region after GCI in rats.
METHODS: 56 Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomly assigned into 4 groups of
sham (n=14), control (n=14), curcumin 50 mg/kg (n=14), and curcumin 100 mg/kg
(n=14). Each group was divided into the two subgroups of short-term (7 days) and
long-term (28 days) treatment periods. The Neurological Severity Score (NSS),
passive avoidance task, and the traction test were performed at postoperative days
of 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28. The novel object recognition test and Voronoi
tessellation were carried out on days 7 and 28 after GCI.
RESULTS: Curcumin 100 mg/kg significantly decreased neurological severity score
on postoperative days of 7 and 28 compared with the control (P<0.001) and
curcumin 50 mg/kg groups (P<0.05-P<0.001), respectively. Also, curcumin 100
mg/kg significantly increased step-through latency times on postoperative days of 3-
28 and 14-28 compared with the control (P<0.05-P<0.001) and curcumin 50 mg/kg
groups (P<0.01-P<0.001). Moreover, it increased the novelty preference index during
the novel object recognition test in the 28-day treatment subgroup after GCI.
Curcumin (100 mg/kg) could maintain the neuronal aggregation in the CA1 region
after GCI at a level near to what is generally observed in normal rats.
CONCLUSION: Curcumin could improve memory and neurological deficits and
restore irregular neuronal distribution in the CA1 region after GCI in a time-
dependent manner, and its higher dose was more effective than its lower dose.
Curcumin may have beneficial effects on reducing brain complications after ischemia.
Copyright© 2019 Iranian Neuroscience Society.
Version ID
1
StatusPubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Kamali Dolatabadi, Leila, Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh, Namavar, Mohammad Reza,
Badeli Sarkala, Hamze
Institution
Kamali Dolatabadi, Leila. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced Medical
Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Department of Neuroscience, School of Advanced
Medical Sciences and Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz,
Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Emamghoreishi, Masoumeh. Research Center for Psychiatry and Behavior Science,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Clinical Neurology Research Center, Shiraz University
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Histomorphometry and Stereology Research Center,
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Namavar, Mohammad Reza. Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Badeli Sarkala, Hamze. Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Shiraz
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
79.
  
High anxiety and depressive symptoms in partners of type 1 diabetes persons in a
sample of the Brazilian population.
Buin E, Pavin EJ, Silveira MSVM
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome. 12:23, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32211074
BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetes (T1D) affects psychologically not only the persons
with diabetes themselves but affects their family members. Few studies were
conducted to investigate mental health in T1D partners. This study aims: (1) to
investigate the frequency of depressive and anxiety symptoms in T1D partners and,
(2) to investigate the associations among partners' depressive and anxiety symptoms
and their sociodemographic and behavioral characteristics, and (3) to investigate the
associations among partners' depressive and anxiety symptoms and clinical,
laboratory and demographic characteristics of their T1D spouses in a Brazilian
population.
METHODS: In a transversal study 72 T1D partners were interviewed. Partners were
invited to take part in the study during their T1D spouses' routine consultations.
Those who consented to take part in the study signed the consent form. This study
followed the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the
University Ethics in Research Committee. Inclusion criteria were T1D partners age
>= 18 and T1D diagnosis > 6 months. Exclusion criteria were cognitive impairment,history of major psychiatric disorders, and severe chronic and terminal diseases.
Depressive symptoms were evaluated by the depression subscale of the Hospital
Anxiety and Depression scale (HADD) and anxiety symptoms were evaluated by the
anxiety subscale of the same instrument (HADA). T1D partners were divided into
subgroups according to score >= 8 and < 8 in both subscales. Demographic and
clinical data were obtained from interview. Descriptive analyses were undertaken
using means and percentages, as appropriate. Differences between groups were
assessed by the Mann-Whitney test for numerical variables, by the Chi Square test
or by Fisher's exact test for categorical variables, as appropriate. All analyses were
undertaken using SAS version 9.2 for Windows. Statistical significance was set at
0.05.
RESULTS: Of all 72 T1D partners, 72.2% were male, mean age was 42.7 +/- 14.1
years old, years of school attendance were 11.8 +/- 3.9 years, and 48.5% had
income reaching until 3 Brazilian minimal wages. Forty-three percent reported high
anxiety symptoms (HADA >= 8) and 18.1% reported high depressive symptoms
(HADD >= 8). Comparing T1D partners group with HADA >= 8 and < 8, the first one
was associated with CGM use (41.94% vs 19.51%; p = 0.03). Similarly, comparing
T1D partners group with HADD >= 8 and < 8, the first one was associated with (1)
longer duration of T1D of their spouses (28.6 +/- 7.1 vs 22.4 +/- 12.2; p = 0.02); (2)
less years of school attendance of T1D partners (9.3 +/- 3.2 vs 12.3 +/- 3.8; p =
0.02), and (3) higher number of hypoglycemic episodes requiring other person's
intervention (6.3 +/- 8.9 vs 2.4 +/- 4.7; p = 0.009). Seventy-six percent of partners
who helped personally in their spouses' hypoglycemia recovery had HADD >= 8 vs
44.7% with HADD < 8 (p = 0.03). Likewise, 84.6% vs 54.2% of partners in which their
spouses have T1D chronic complications had HADD >= 8 and < 8, respectively (p =
0.04).
CONCLUSION: This study showed a high frequency of relevant anxiety and
depressive symptoms in this T1D partner population. Several issues related to T1D
of their spouses were associated with these symptoms. These results emphasize the
need to incorporate the psychological and psychiatric aspects into T1D partners'
education and care.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2020.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Buin, E; GRID: grid.411087.b   Buin, E; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Pavin, E J; GRID: grid.411087.b
Pavin, E J; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Silveira, M S V M; GRID: grid.411087.b
Silveira, M S V M; ISNI: grid.411087.b
Authors Full Name
Buin, E, Pavin, E J, Silveira, M S V M
Institution
Buin, E. 1Internal Medicine Postgraduate Program, Faculty of Medical Sciences,
State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.   Pavin, E J.
2Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medical
Sciences, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Silveira, M S V M. 2Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty
of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas, Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
80.
  
Biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease: Evaluation of platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12.
Dos Santos GAA, Pardi PC
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 14(1):35-40, 2020 Jan-Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32206196
Currently, the most likely hypotheses as the cause of Alzheimer's disease are
deposition of amyloid beta peptide in the cerebral cortex and hyperphosphorylation of
Tau protein. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is based on the exclusion of other
diseases, behavioral assessments, and blood and imaging tests. Biotechnology has
created interesting perspectives for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease
through blood analysis, with special attention to platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the concentrations of platelets, hemoglobin and vitamin
B12 in the blood of older adults with and without dementia of Alzheimer's disease.
METHODS: A case-control study involving 120 individuals was conducted, seeking to
establish a correlation between changes in platelet, hemoglobin and vitamin B12
concentrations in patients with confirmed AD and in individuals in the inclusion group
without AD. The study met the established ethical requirements.
RESULTS: Hemoglobin and platelet levels were statistically lower in patients with
AD. The biochemical evaluation in AD patient and healthy groups for vitamin B12
showed a decrease in the levels of this compound in patients with AD.
CONCLUSION: We demonstrated the feasibility of the use of blood biomarkers as
predictive markers for the diagnosis of AD.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3326-5537 
Authors Full Name
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade, Pardi, Paulo Celso
Institution
Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade. Universidade de Sao Paulo - USP. Faculdade
de Medicina de Ribeirao Preto. Departamento de Anatomia e Cirurgia. Ribeirao
Preto, SP, Brazil.   Dos Santos, Gustavo Alves Andrade. Centro Universitario do
Senac - Unidade Tiradentes. Departamento de Pos-graduacao em Farmacia.
Pardi, Paulo Celso. Universidade Anhanguera Guarulhos. Departamento de
Biomedicina, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
Atualmente, as hipoteses mais provaveis como causa da doenca de Alzheimer sao a
deposicao do peptideo beta amiloide no cortex cerebral e a hiperfosforilacao da
proteina Tau. O diagnostico da doenca de Alzheimer baseia-se na exclusao de
outras doencas, avaliacoes comportamentais e exames de imagem e sangue. A
biotecnologia criou perspectivas interessantes para a deteccao precoce da doenca
de Alzheimer, pela analise sanguinea, com atencao especial as plaquetas,
hemoglobina e vitamina B12.OBJETIVO: Avaliar as concentracoes de plaquetas,
hemoglobina e vitamina B12 no sangue de idosos com e sem demencia de
Alzheimer.METODOS: O estudo de caso-controle envolveu 120 individuos,buscando correlacao entre mudancas nas concentracoes de plaquetas, hemoglobina
e vitamina B12 em pacientes com DA confirmada e individuos do grupo de inclusao,
sem DA.RESULTADOS: Os niveis de hemoglobina e plaquetas sao estatisticamente
mais baixos em pacientes com DA. A avaliacao bioquimica em pacientes com DA e
grupos saudaveis para vitamina B12 mostrou uma diminuicao nos niveis deste
composto em pacientes com DA.CONCLUSAO: Demonstramos a viabilidade do uso
de biomarcadores sanguineos como marcadores preditivos para o diagnostico de
DA.
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
81.
  
The Association Between Body Mass Index and Comorbidity, Quality of Life, and
Cognitive Function in the Elderly Population.
Rambod M, Ghodsbin F, Moradi A
International Journal of Community Based Nursing & Midwifery. 8(1):45-54, 2020
Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32039279
BACKGROUND: Debate still exists regarding physical and cognitive factors
associated with Body Mass Index (BMI) in the elderly population. This study aimed to
determine the association between BMI and comorbidity, Quality of Life (QOL), and
cognitive function in the elderly population.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study was conducted from October 2017 to January
2018. The participants included 246 old people who referred to Imam Reza elderly
clinic, Shiraz, Iran. The data were collected using Leipad Quality of Life
Questionnaire and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Indeed, weight and
height were measured to assess the BMI. The data were entered into SPSS, version
21, and analyzed using ANOVA, Chi-square test, Pearson correlation coefficient, and
multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS: This study showed that 104 (47%) of the participants were overweight
and obese. The mean+/-SD score of QOL was 46.14+/-12.01. Additionally, 93
(37.8%) of the participants had cognitive impairment. The results showed a
significant difference among normal weight, overweight, and obese groups regarding
the mean scores of QOL (P<0.001) and cognitive function (P<0.001). Moreover, 29%
of the changes in BMI was explained by QOL, cognitive function, and having
hypertension and cancer. Among these variables, the associations between BMI and
QOL (r=-0.52, P<0.001) and cognitive function (r=-0.28, P<0.001) were significant.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that half of the old people suffered from
overweight and obesity. Moreover, roughly one-third had cognitive impairment. In
addition, BMI was associated with QOL and cognitive function in the elderly.
Therefore, healthcare workers might use these findings to design prevention and
treatment programs targeting the elderly population.
Copyright: © Shiraz University of Medical Sciences.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Rambod, Masoume, Ghodsbin, Fariba, Moradi, Ali
Institution
Rambod, Masoume. Community Based Psychiatric Care Research Center,
Department of Nursing, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Shiraz University of
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.   Ghodsbin, Fariba. Shiraz Geriatric Research
Center, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences,
Shiraz, Iran.
Moradi, Ali. Student Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences,
Shiraz, Iran.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
82.
  
Effects of Tai Chi Chuan on Inhibitory Control in Elderly Women: An fNIRS Study.
Yang Y, Chen T, Shao M, Yan S, Yue GH, Jiang C
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience. 13:476, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32038205
BACKGROUND: Inhibitory control is a sub-ability of executive function and plays an
important role in the entire cognitive process. However, declines in inhibitory control
during aging significantly impair the quality of life of elderly people. Investigating
methods to delay the decline of inhibitory control has become a focal point in current
research. Tai Chi Chuan (TCC) is one effective method used to delay cognitive
declines in older adults. However, the specific effects of TCC on inhibitory control
and the mechanisms through which TCC may improve cognition in older adults have
not been comprehensively investigated.
OBJECTIVE: The study explores possible neurological mechanisms related to the
effects of TCC interventions on inhibitory control in older people using a functional
near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) technique and reaction times (RTs).
METHODS: A total of 26 healthy, elderly people who had not received TCC training
completed all study procedures. The subjects were randomized to either the TCC
group or the control group. Subjects in the TCC group were taught TCC by a certified
instructor and trained for 8 weeks. The control group continued to perform general
daily activities. The Flanker task was administered to every participant to evaluate
inhibitory control pre- and post-intervention. While participants were performing the
Flanker task, fNIRS data were collected.
RESULTS: Post-intervention, significant differences for incongruent flankers were
found only for the TCC intervention group. Faster RTs were observed for the
incongruent flankers in the TCC group than in the control group (p < 0.05). Analysis
of the fNIRS data revealed an increase in oxy-Hb in the prefrontal cortex during the
incongruent flankers after the TCC exercise intervention.
CONCLUSION: The TCC intervention significantly improved inhibitory control in older
adults, suggesting that TCC is an effective, suitable exercise for improving executive
function and neurological health in elderly people.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Register,
ChiCTR1900028457.
Copyright © 2020 Yang, Chen, Shao, Yan, Yue and Jiang.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Yang, Yuan, Chen, Tingting, Shao, Mingming, Yan, Shoufu, Yue, Guang H, Jiang,
Changhao
Institution
Yang, Yuan. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and Technical
Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.   Yang,
Yuan. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Chen, Tingting. School of Education, Beijing Dance Academy, Beijing, China.
Shao, Mingming. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and
Technical Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing,
China.
Shao, Mingming. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of
Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Yan, Shoufu. School of Kinesiology and Health, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Yue, Guang H. Center for Mobility and Rehabilitation Engineering, Kessler
Foundation, West Orange, NJ, United States.
Yue, Guang H. Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The State University of
New Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States.
Jiang, Changhao. Beijing Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness Evaluation and
Technical Analysis, Capital University of Physical Education and Sports, Beijing,
China.
Jiang, Changhao. The Center of Neuroscience and Sports, Capital University of
Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Jiang, Changhao. School of Kinesiology and Health, Capital University of Physical
Education and Sports, Beijing, China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
83.
  
Differences in Psychotropic Drug Prescribing Between Ethnic Groups of People with
Dementia in the United Kingdom.
Jones ME, Petersen I, Walters K, Bhanu C, Manthorpe J, Raine R, Mukadam N,
Cooper C
Clinical Epidemiology. 12:61-71, 2020.
[Journal Article]
UI: 32021472
PURPOSE: To test hypotheses that minority ethnic people with dementia in the UK
receive fewer anti-dementia drugs and more psychotropic and anticholinergic drugsassociated with harms.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed UK primary care electronic health records
from The Health Improvement Network (THIN) database (2014-2016), comparing
psychotropic drug prescribing initiation and duration between people with dementia
from White, Black, and Asian ethnic groups. We repeated analyses in people (aged
50+) without dementia, to explore whether any differences found reflected
prescribing patterns in the general older population, or were specific to dementia.
RESULTS: We included 53,718 people with and 1,648,889 people without dementia.
Among people with dementia, compared to White ethnic groups, Asian people were
less likely to be prescribed anti-dementia drugs when they were potentially indicated
(adjusted prevalence rate ratio 0.86 (95% Confidence Interval 0.76-0.98)), and
received them for on average 15 days/year less. Compared to White groups, Asian
and Black individuals with dementia were no more likely to take an antipsychotic
drug, but those that had were prescribed them for 17 and 27 days/year more,
respectively (190.8 (179.6-199.1) and 200.7 (191.1-206.5) days). Black people were
less likely to be prescribed anxiolytics/hypnotics (0.60 (0.44-0.8)), but the duration
these drugs were prescribed was similar across ethnic groups. Asian people were
more likely to be prescribed anticholinergic drugs (1.43 (1.19-1.73)), in analyses
unadjusted for cardiovascular comorbidities. Among people without dementia, those
in the Asian and Black ethnic groups were less likely to be prescribed psychotropic
drugs, relative to people from White groups.
CONCLUSION: Among people with dementia, Asian groups received less potentially
beneficial symptomatic treatments, and Asian and Black groups were prescribed
antipsychotic drugs for longer than White ethnic groups. Our findings may indicate
care inequalities.
Copyright © 2020 Jones et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Petersen, Irene; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0037-7524   Walters, Kate;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2173-2430 
Bhanu, Cini; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3168-4172 
Authors Full Name
Jones, Mary Elizabeth, Petersen, Irene, Walters, Kate, Bhanu, Cini, Manthorpe, Jill,
Raine, Rosalind, Mukadam, Naaheed, Cooper, Claudia
Institution
Jones, Mary Elizabeth. Department of Primary Care and Population Health,
University College London, London, UK.   Petersen, Irene. Department of Primary
Care and Population Health, University College London, London, UK.
Walters, Kate. Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University
College London, London, UK.
Bhanu, Cini. Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College
London, London, UK.
Manthorpe, Jill. NIHR Health and Social Care Workforce Research Unit, King's
College London, London, UK.
Raine, Rosalind. Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London,
London, UK.
Mukadam, Naaheed. Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
Cooper, Claudia. Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
84.
  
Radioiodine Therapy of Graves' Disease and the Uptake Paradox.
Malapure SS, Mukherjee A, Bal C
Indian Journal of Nuclear Medicine. 35(1):17-20, 2020 Jan-Mar.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31949364
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Radioiodine (131I) therapy is approved and well-
accepted modality for the treatment of hyperthyroidism. The dosage of 131I for
successful treatment is based on many factors; however, an objective tool to
determine the dose was missing. In a retrospective study, we found that high 131I
uptake values required more dose to achieve desirable results contrary to the belief.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Clinically and scintigraphically proven Graves'
disease patients with high 131I uptake (>50%) were accrued for this study and block
randomized into low-dose (Group I) and high-dose (Group II) groups. Low activity (5
mCi) was administered in Group I and higher activity (10 mCi) in Group II. The
patients were followed up after 3 months with thyroid function tests to determine the
outcome.
RESULTS: A total of 344 patients were analyzed at the end of 3 months, with 174 in
low-dose group and 170 in high-dose group. Euthyroidism/hypothyroidism was
achieved in significantly higher number of patients as compared to the low-dose
group.
CONCLUSION: The higher dose of 131I is required to achieve
euthyroidism/hypothyroidism in patients with high 131I uptake.
Copyright: © 2019 Indian Journal of Nuclear Medicine.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Malapure, Sumeet Suresh, Mukherjee, Anirban, Bal, Chandrasekar
Institution
Malapure, Sumeet Suresh. Department of Radiotherapy, Nuclear Medicine Division,
Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, Karnataka, India.   Mukherjee, Anirban.
Department of Nuclear Medicine, AMRI Hospital, Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
Bal, Chandrasekar. Department of Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
85.
  A Comparison Study of Cilostazol and Aspirin on Changes in Volume of Cerebral
Small Vessel Disease White Matter Changes: Protocol of a Multicenter, Randomized
Controlled Trial.
Han HJ, Kim BC, Youn YC, Jeong JH, Kim JH, Lee JH, Park KH, Park KW, Kim EJ,
Oh MS, Shim YS, Park HY, Yoon B, Yoon SJ, Cho SJ, Park KC, Na DL, Park SA,
Lee JM, Choi SH
Dementia and Neurocognitive Disorders. 18(4):138-148, 2019 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31942173
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) is the most
common cause of vascular dementia and a major contributor to mixed dementia.
CSVD is characterized by progressive cerebral white matter changes (WMC) due to
chronic low perfusion and loss of autoregulation. In addition to its antiplatelet effect,
cilostazol exerts a vasodilating effect and improves endothelial function. This study
aims to compare the effects of cilostazol and aspirin on changes in WMC volume in
CSVD.
METHODS: The comparison study of Cilostazol and aspirin on cHAnges in volume of
cerebral smaLL vEssel disease white matter chaNGEs (CHALLENGE) is a double
blind, randomized trial involving 19 hospitals across South Korea. Patients with
moderate or severe WMC and >= 1 lacunar infarction detected on brain magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) are eligible; the projected sample size is 254. Participants
are randomly assigned to a cilostazol or aspirin group at a 1:1 ratio. Cilostazol slow
release 200 mg or aspirin 100 mg are taken once daily for 2 years. The primary
outcome measure is the change in WMC volume on MRI from baseline to 104
weeks. Secondary imaging outcomes include changes in the number of lacunes and
cerebral microbleeds, fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity on diffusion tensor
imaging, and brain atrophy. Secondary clinical outcomes include all ischemic strokes,
all vascular events, and changes in cognition, motor function, mood, urinary
symptoms, and disability.
CONCLUSIONS: CHALLENGE will provide evidence to support the selection of long-
term antiplatelet therapy in CSVD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01932203.
Copyright © 2019 Korean Dementia Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Han, Hyun Jeong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1129-6340   Kim, Byeong C;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6827-6730 
Youn, Young Chul; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2742-1759 
Jeong, Jee Hyang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7945-6956 
Kim, Jong Hun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2594-1048 
Lee, Jae-Hong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7368-4560 
Park, Kee Hyung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6847-6679 
Park, Kyung Won; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6788-5267 
Kim, Eun-Joo; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8460-1377 
Oh, Mi Sun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6741-0464 
Shim, Yong S; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5642-5401 
Park, Hyun Young; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1394-9453 
Yoon, Bora; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1135-3392 
Yoon, Soo Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4671-6832 
Cho, Soo-Jin; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4053-3763 
Park, Key Chung; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8250-9561 
Na, Duk L; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0098-7592 
Park, Sun Ah; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3027-3259 
Lee, Jong-Min; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3598-376X 
Choi, Seong Hye; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4180-8626 Authors Full Name
Han, Hyun Jeong, Kim, Byeong C, Youn, Young Chul, Jeong, Jee Hyang, Kim, Jong
Hun, Lee, Jae-Hong, Park, Kee Hyung, Park, Kyung Won, Kim, Eun-Joo, Oh, Mi
Sun, Shim, Yong S, Park, Hyun Young, Yoon, Bora, Yoon, Soo Jin, Cho, Soo-Jin,
Park, Key Chung, Na, Duk L, Park, Sun Ah, Lee, Jong-Min, Choi, Seong Hye
Institution
Han, Hyun Jeong. Department of Neurology, Myongji Hospital, Hanyang University
College of Medicine, Goyang, Korea.   Kim, Byeong C. Department of Neurology,
Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea.
Youn, Young Chul. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang
University, Seoul, Korea.
Jeong, Jee Hyang. Department of Neurology, Ewha Womans University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Kim, Jong Hun. Department of Neurology, National Health Insurance Service Ilsan
Hospital, Goyang, Korea.
Lee, Jae-Hong. Department of Neurology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Park, Kee Hyung. Department of Neurology, Gil Medical Center, Gachon University
College of Medicine, Incheon, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Department of Neurology, Dong-A University College of Medicine,
Busan, Korea.
Kim, Eun-Joo. Department of Neurology, Pusan National University Hospital, Pusan
National University School of Medicine and Medical Research Institute, Busan,
Korea.
Oh, Mi Sun. Department of Neurology, Hallym University Sacred Heart Hospital,
Hallym University College of Medicine, Anyang, Korea.
Shim, Yong S. Department of Neurology, The Catholic University of Korea
Eunpyeong St. Mary's Hospital, Bucheon, Korea.
Park, Hyun Young. Department of Neurology, Wonkwang University School of
Medicine, Iksan, Korea.
Yoon, Bora. Department of Neurology, Konyang University College of Medicine,
Daejeon, Korea.
Yoon, Soo Jin. Department of Neurology, Eulji University Hospital, Eulji University
School of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea.
Cho, Soo-Jin. Department of Neurology, Hallym University Dongtan Sacred Heart
Hospital, Hallym University College of Medicine, Hwaseong, Korea.
Park, Key Chung. Department of Neurology, Kyung Hee University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Na, Duk L. Department of Neurology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
Park, Sun Ah. Department of Anatomy and Neurology, Ajou University School of
Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
Lee, Jong-Min. Department of Biomedical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul,
Korea.
Choi, Seong Hye. Department of Neurology, Inha University School of Medicine,
Incheon, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
  
86.
  
The Effect of Multi-tasking Exercise Intervention on Cognitive Function in Elderly and
Cognitive Impairment Patients: a Pilot Multicenter Study.
Lee HJ, Lee M, Park H, Park JH, Park KW
Dementia and Neurocognitive Disorders. 18(4):122-129, 2019 Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31942171
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the
impact of multi-tasking exercise on cognitive and motor function in patients with mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) and cognitive normal elderly (CNE).
METHODS: A total of 144 subjects were recruited from 14 regional dementia centers
in Busan Metropolitan City. With the exception of 77 subjects unsuitable for the
study, 67 subjects participated in the intervention. The Korean version of Mini-Mental
State Examination for Dementia Screening (MMSE-DS), Subject Memory Complain
Questionnaire (SMCQ), and the Korean version of the Short-Form Geriatric
Depression Scale (SGDS-K) were used to determine changes in cognitive function
and depressive symptoms pre-post intervention in patients with MCI and CNE,
respectively. To observe changes in motor function, 5-chair sit to stand and 5-meter
walking speed on the lower body strength and walking ability were also measured in
both groups.
RESULTS: For the MCI group, changes in cognitive and depressive symptoms on
the tasks of MMSE-DS (p=0.006), SMCQ (p=0.000), SGDS-K (p=0.000) and the
result of the motor function analysis on the items of 5-chair sit to stand (p=0.000),
normal speed (p=0.004) and maximal speed (p=0.002) of 5-meter walking speed
(p<0.005). In the CNE group, all the items except MMSE-DS (p=0.068) and SGDS-K
(p=0.095) showed statistically significant improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Multi-tasking exercise intervention, including exercise and cognitive
tasks, may possibly improve the cognitive and motor function in patients with MCI
and CNE.
Copyright © 2019 Korean Dementia Association.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Lee, Hee Jae; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1212-6810   Lee, MinJae; ORCID:
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0244-0598 
Park, Hyuntae; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1976-0005 
Park, Jong Hwan; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2815-7248 
Park, Kyung Won; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6788-5267 
Authors Full Name
Lee, Hee Jae, Lee, MinJae, Park, Hyuntae, Park, Jong Hwan, Park, Kyung Won
Institution
Lee, Hee Jae. Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.   Lee, MinJae.
Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.
Park, Hyuntae. Department of Healthcare and Science, Dong-A University, Busan,
Korea.
Park, Jong Hwan. Institute of Biomedical Research, Pusan National University
Hospital, Busan, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Busan Metropolitan Dementia Center, Busan, Korea.
Park, Kyung Won. Department of Neurology, Dong-A University College of Medicine,
Busan, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
87.
  
Comparison of cholinesterase inhibitor safety in real-world practice.
Carney G, Bassett K, Wright JM, Maclure M, McGuire N, Dormuth CR
Alzheimer's & Dementia : Translational Research & Clinical Interventions. 5:732-739,
2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31921965
INTRODUCTION: Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) are widely used to treat mild to
moderate Alzheimer's disease and related dementia. Clinical trials have focused on
placebo comparisons, inadequately addressing within-class comparative safety.
METHODS: New users of ChEIs in British Columbia were categorized into five study
cohorts: low-dose donepezil, high-dose donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine patch,
and oral rivastigmine. Comparative safety of ChEIs assessed hazard ratios using
propensity score adjusted Cox regression.
RESULTS: Compared with low-dose donepezil, galantamine use was associated
with a lower risk of mortality (adjusted hazard ratio: 0.84, 95% confidence interval:
0.60-1.18), cardiovascular serious adverse events (adjusted hazard ratio: 0.78, 95%
confidence interval: 0.62-0.98), and entry into a residential care facility (adjusted
hazard ratio: 0.72, 95% confidence interval: 0.59-0.89).
DISCUSSION: Given the absence of randomized trial data showing clinically
meaningful benefit of ChEI therapy in Alzheimer's disease, our study suggests
preferential use of galantamine may at least be associated with fewer adverse events
than treatment with donepezil or rivastigmine.
Copyright © 2019 The Authors.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Carney, Greg, Bassett, Ken, Wright, James M, Maclure, Malcolm, McGuire, Nicolette,
Dormuth, Colin R
Institution
Carney, Greg. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada.   Carney, Greg. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and
Therapeutics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Bassett, Ken. Department of Family Practice, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Wright, James M. Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Maclure, Malcolm. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,BC, Canada.
Maclure, Malcolm. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
McGuire, Nicolette. Research and Innovation Division, B.C. Ministry of Health,
Victoria, BC, Canada.
Dormuth, Colin R. Therapeutics Initiative, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada.
Dormuth, Colin R. Department of Anesthesiology, Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
88.
  
Evaluation of Postoperative Delirium: Validity and Reliability of the Nursing Delirium
Screening Scale in the Turkish Language.
Cinar F, Eti Aslan F
Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders Extra. 9(3):362-373, 2019 Sep-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31911787
PURPOSE: Postoperative delirium is the most well-known form of postoperative
cognitive impairment in all patient groups, especially in the elderly. Delirium is a
syndrome that causes serious consequences, increasing mortality and morbidity
rates and extending the length of hospital stay. The aim of this study was to evaluate
the validity and reliability of the Turkish version of the Nursing Delirium Screening
Scale (Nu-DESC).
METHOD: One hundred twelve patients who were hospitalized for a surgical
operation in the orthopedics, neurosurgery, and general surgery clinic of a state
hospital for 3 months were evaluated concurrently (and independently for delirium).
Patients were observed by clinical nurses 3 times over a 24-h period. The presence
of delirium was diagnosed by 2 neurologists according to DSM-IV criteria. Student's t
test, the chi2 test, and the Mann-Whitney U test were used, and construct validity,
intrascale factor analysis, interrater reliability, and specificity and sensitivity (ROC)
analyses were performed for descriptive analysis. SPSS 25.0 and MedCalc18.6 were
used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Delirium was detected in 28 patients according to the Nu-DESC. The ICC
(intraclass correlation) is 0.97 in the 95% confidence interval from 0.96 to 0.98 for
agreement between nurses and neurologists for the total Nu-DESC score. Weighted
kappa rates were between 0.78 and 0.92. In the ROC analysis of the Nu-DESC
scale, the optimum cutoff value calculated for the 1,344 observations and 112
patients was determined as >1 according to the maximum sensitivity and the specific
situation. Sensitivity at the cut-off point was 92.27; specificity was determined as
92.72. The Youden index was found to be J = 0.845 (0 < J = 0.845 < 1).
CONCLUSION: We believe that Turkish translation of Nu-DESC is valid and reliable
for clinicians, nurses, and researchers and will contribute to delirium studies.
Copyright © 2019 by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Version ID
1Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Cinar, Fadime, Eti Aslan, Fatma
Institution
Cinar, Fadime. Sabahattin Zaim University, Faculty of Health Sciences, Istanbul,
Turkey.   Eti Aslan, Fatma. Bahcesehir University, Faculty of Health Sciences,
Istanbul, Turkey.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
89.
  
The experimental research on neuroplasticity in rats' hippocampus subjected to
chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and interfered by Modified Dioscorea Pills.
Li HB, Liang WB, Zhou L
Heliyon. 6(1):e02897, 2020 Jan.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31909235
BACKGROUND: Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion (CCH) is a common, crucial and
tough problem for old people. It easily leads to Lacunar Infarction and even Vascular
Dementia (VD). Western medicine has the advantage to relieve some VD symptoms
but fails to cure it. Some classic Chinese medicines have good efficacies to treat and
delay the cerebral functional decline resulted from CCH. Among them Modified
Dioscorea Pills (MDP) has been proven to have a convincing effect in curing VD. So
far the knowledge about neuroplasticity in CCH is little known and the underlying
interfered mechanism by MDP on neuroplasticity has not yet been explored. This
study explores the changes of neuroplasticity involving neurogenesis, angiogenesis
and synaptogenesis in CCH and interfered by MDP.
METHODS: 40 male SD rats were divided into the Sham operated Group, the Model
Group and the MDP Group according to a Random Number Table. Bilateral Common
Carotid Arteries Occlusion (BCCAO) was adopted to prepare CCH models. MDP
condense decoction had been administered by gavage to rats in the MDP Group
(10g.Kg-1.d-1) for 45 days; Rats in the other two groups were accepted normal salts
as substitution with same dosage and course. Through Morris Water Maze (MWM)
test, pathological observation of hippocampus, ultrastructural study on synapse, Real
Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry detection,
the capacities of intelligence of rats, the morphological character of hippocampus
CA1 zone and the synapse associated protein and gene such as Growth Associated
Protein (GAP-43) mRNA, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) mRNA,
Microtubule-associated Protein (MAP)-2, Synaptophysin (SYP), Postsynaptic Density
protein (PSD)-95 and Micro Vessel Density (MVD) were determined. Through one-
way ANOVA the data was analyzed and when P<0.05 the result was considered
significant.
RESULTS: Compared to the Model Group, rats in the MDP Group achieved much
better behavioral performance (P<0.05); more neurons and more synapses
regenerated; the expression of SYP, PSD-95and MAP-2 up-regulated (P<0.05); The
expressions of GAP-43 mRNA and VEGF mRNA in the Model Group were higherthan those in the Sham operated Group (P<0.05), but they reached the highest in the
MDP Group (P<0.05); The count of MVD in the Sham operated Group is the lowest,
it is higher in the MDP Group and it reaches highest in the Model Group (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Some key genes promoting neuroplasticity such as GAP-43 mRNA
and VEGF mRNA remarkably up-regulated in CCH, they only boost angiogenesis but
fail to facilitate neurogenesis and synaptogenesis in CCH. However, accompanied by
furtherly up-regulation of these two key genes, MDP obviously improves
neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and temperate angiogenesis in CCH which may be
underlying its good efficacy.
Copyright © 2019 The Author(s).
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Li, H B, Liang, W B, Zhou, L
Institution
Li, H B. Emergency Department of the First People's Hospital of Guiyang, Guiyang,
Guizhou Province, People's Republic of China.   Liang, W B. Surgery Department of
Wudong Hospital of Wuhan City. Wuhan, Hubei Province, People's Republic of
China.
Zhou, L. Emergency Department of the First People's Hospital of Guiyang, Guiyang,
Guizhou Province, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2020
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
90.
  
Comparision of Vital Surgical Parameters, after Administration of Midazolam and
Dexmedetomidine for Conscious Sedation in Minor Oral Surgery.
Sivasubramani S, Pandyan DA, Ravindran C
Annals of Maxillofacial Surgery. 9(2):283-288, 2019 Jul-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31909006
AIM: The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy between midazolam and
dexmedetomidine in relation to vital parameters, sedation score, pain score, cognitive
judgment, and postoperative amnesia to the event in conscious sedation for minor
oral surgical procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A sample size of 30 patients were selected in each
group: Group M (midazolam) and Group D (dexmedetomidine).
RESULTS: The mean heart rate (HR) and systolic and diastolic blood pressure
measurements were significantly higher in Group M after the 20th min when
compared to Group D. The visual analog scale (VAS) scores of pain were not
statistically significant between the two groups during the procedure, but at the time
of discharge, statistically significant VAS scores were found between the two groups.
Nine (30%) patients in Group D and 21 (70%) patients in Group M showed cognitive
judgment impairment with the Stroop Color and Word Test at the 30th min.
CONCLUSION: The dexmedetomidine group of patients had reduced blood pressureand HR. No significant differences were noted in oxygen saturation or in respiratory
rate between the two drugs. Patients had better sedation, analgesia, lesser cognitive
impairment, and amnesia in the dexmedetomidine group.
Copyright: © 2019 Annals of Maxillofacial Surgery.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Sivasubramani, Suryahanthmihiran, Pandyan, Deepak Abraham, Ravindran, C
Institution
Sivasubramani, Suryahanthmihiran. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu,
India.   Pandyan, Deepak Abraham. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu,
India.
Ravindran, C. Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Sri Ramachandra
Institute of Higher Education and Research, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
91.
  
Relatively young T1D adults using fixed doses of insulin have higher diabetes
distress levels in a sample of patients from a Brazilian tertiary hospital.
Silveira MSVM, Bovi TG, Pavin EJ
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome. 11:104, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31890038
BACKGROUND: Elevated rates of anxiety and depressive symptoms in Type 1
Diabetes patients (T1D) and high rates of diabetes-specific distress (DD) have been
shown. Several factors may be responsible for increase the DD levels such as age,
life changes, lack of familiar support, education, insulin regimens (IRs) and chronic
complications. The goals of this study were: 1-to compare DD levels, anxiety and
depressive symptoms according to age (< and >= 25 years old), 2-to evaluate the
association between DD levels, anxiety and depressive symptoms and IRs, and 3-to
evaluate the association between DD levels, anxiety and depressive symptoms and
chronic complications.
METHODS: In a cross-sectional study, T1D patients receiving outpatient care at
Unicamp tertiary hospital were included. Inclusion criteria were age at least 18 years
old and diagnosis of T1D for 6 months. Exclusion criteria were cognitive impairment,
major psychiatric disorders, severe diabetes-related complications, and pregnancy.
Depressive symptoms were evaluated by the depression subscale of the Hospital
Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD-D) and the anxiety symptoms by the anxiety
subscale of the same instrument (HAD-A). DDS scale assessed DD. Glycemic
control was evaluated by HbA1C. The latest lipid panel results were recorded and
IRs and chronic complications were obtained through chart review.
RESULTS: Of all 70 patients, 70% were younger than 25 years old. No differenceswere found between two groups according to gender, education, and income (p =
0.39, p = 0.87, and p = 0.52, respectively). HbA1c mean was 10% in both groups (p
= 0.15). Older patients had higher levels of total DD and physician DD than younger
(p = 0.0048 and p = 0.0413; respectively). Total DD and DD on subscales 1 and 2
were higher in patients using fixed doses of insulin compared to variable doses
according to carbohydrates count (p = 0.0392, p = 0.0383 and p = 0.0043,
respectively). No differences were found between anxiety and depressive symptoms
and age and IRs. Similarly, no differences were found among DD levels, anxiety and
depressive symptoms in patients with and without chronic complications.
CONCLUSIONS: When providing education and care for T1D patients, health
providers should consider age, patient's developmental stage, with its related
demands and the burden of insulin regimen.
Copyright © The Author(s) 2019.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Silveira, M S V M, Bovi, T G, Pavin, E J
Institution
Silveira, M S V M. Internal Medicine Postgraduate Program, Faculty of Medical
Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.   Bovi, T G. Internal Medicine Postgraduate
Program, Faculty of Medical Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.
Pavin, E J. Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of
Medical Sciences-Unicamp, Campinas, Brazil.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
92.
  
The effectiveness of cognitive training on improving cognitive function and sleep
quality in community-dwelling elderly in Iran.
Keramtinejad M, Azadi A, Taghinejad H, Khorshidi A
Sleep Science. 12(2):88-93, 2019 Apr-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879540
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Given the ever-increasing of the older adults population
and in order to achieve healthy and active ageing goals and improvement in the
cognitive function and sleep quality in older adult, this study aimed to evaluate the
effect of cognitive training program on improving cognitive function and ageing-
related sleep quality in community-dwelling elderly in Iran, in 2018.
METHODS: This was an experimental study. The sample comprised 420 older adults
who were a member of the comprehensive health center in one of the southern cities
of Iran. 164 had a cognitive problem and sleep disorder, of whom 108 were selected
by the available method and based on inclusion criteria. Participants were randomly
allocated to an experimental group (n=54) and a control group (n=54). Experimental
group samples were undergoing the intervention for two months. Data were collected
using MMSE questionnaire, Pittsburgh sleep quality, insomnia severity index andClinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR). Data were collected one month before-and-
after the intervention. Data were analyzed using SPSS software.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the mean score of cognitive
function and sleep quality in both the intervention group and the control group before
the intervention (p>0.05). At the post-test, the mean (SD) of elderly adults' cognitive
function in the intervention and control groups were 2.7 (1.3) and 3.44 (1.7),
respectively (p=0.017). Moreover, the mean (SD) of sleep quality in older adults in
the intervention and the control group was 6.76 (2.3) and 9.25 (2.36), respectively
(p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Given the obtained results in the current study the cognitive training
promotes cognitive function and sleep quality in older adults. Therefore, since this
program is effective, low-cost and applicable, it can be used to improve cognitive
function and sleep disorder in the older adult population.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Keramtinejad, Maryam, Azadi, Arman, Taghinejad, Hamid, Khorshidi, Ali
Institution
Keramtinejad, Maryam. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department -
Ilam - Ilam - Iran.   Keramtinejad, Maryam. Ilam University of Medical sciences,
Student research committee - Ilam - Ilam - Iran.
Azadi, Arman. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department - Ilam - Ilam
- Iran.
Taghinejad, Hamid. Ilam University of Medical sciences, Nursing Department - Ilam -
Ilam - Iran.
Khorshidi, Ali. Ilam University of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine - Ilam - Ilam -
Iran.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
93.
  
Effect of psychotic symptoms on cognitive impairment in patients with bipolar
disorder.
Achalia RM, Nagendra B, Achalia G, Chopade M, Sable A, Venkatasubramanian G,
Rao NP
Industrial Psychiatry Journal. 28(1):115-122, 2019 Jan-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879457
BACKGROUND: A considerable proportion of patients with bipolar disorder (BD)
have psychotic symptoms during the illness. This subset of BD due to its genetic
susceptibility and family segregation has considerable overlap with schizophrenia.
However, the extent to which BD patients with psychotic symptoms and without
psychotic symptoms differ on neurocognitive functions is still not completely clear.
AIM: The aim of this study was to examine the neurocognitive functions in BD
patients with psychotic symptoms and BD without psychotic symptoms in comparisonwith healthy volunteers (HVs).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty patients with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition BD (16 with psychotic symptoms) and thirty age-
and sex-matched HVs were recruited in the study. Clinical severity was assessed
using structured rating scales. The presence of psychotic symptoms was assessed
using the Lifetime Dimensions of Psychosis Scale (LDPS). All patients underwent
tests, namely continuous performance test, Stroop Word-Color interference test, and
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, to measure executive functions. Differences between
groups were examined using analysis of covariance with age and sex as covariates.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference between groups on the performance of
all the three tests, with patients performing poorer than HVs. While the HVs differed
from both BD with psychotic symptoms and without psychotic symptoms, there was
no difference between BD patients with and without psychotic symptoms. There was
no significant correlation between LDPS score and scores on neurocognitive tests.
CONCLUSION: The study findings, at least with respect to cognitive function,
suggest that BD with psychotic symptoms may not be a categorically distinct subtype
of BD. Cognitive functions need to be assessed in all patients with BD, regardless of
psychotic symptoms, and remediation interventions need to be provided.
Copyright: © 2019 Industrial Psychiatry Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh, Nagendra, Bhargavi, Achalia, Garimaa, Chopade,
Mahesh, Sable, Abhijit, Venkatasubramanian, Ganesan, Rao, Naren P
Institution
Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College,
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.   Achalia, Rashmin Mansukh. Achalia
Neuropsychiatry Clinic, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Nagendra, Bhargavi. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health
and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Achalia, Garimaa. Achalia Neuropsychiatry Clinic, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Chopade, Mahesh. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College,
Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India.
Sable, Abhijit. Department of Psychiatry, Government Medical College, Aurangabad,
Maharashtra, India.
Venkatasubramanian, Ganesan. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of
Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Rao, Naren P. Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
94.
  
Psychiatric morbidity, cognitive dysfunction and quality of life in drug-naive patients
with Parkinson's disease: A comparative study.Dhar SS, Jeenger J, Singroha V, Sharma M, Mathur DM
Industrial Psychiatry Journal. 28(1):13-18, 2019 Jan-Jun.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31879441
BACKGROUND: To better understand the psychiatric disorders and cognition in
Parkinson's disease (PD) and its impact on quality of life (QoL), patients need to be
studied soon after diagnosis, before initiation of dopamine replacement therapy.
AIM: This study aims to compare the nature and frequency of psychiatric morbidity,
cognitive dysfunction, and quality of life in drug-naive patients with PD and healthy
controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cross-sectional, comparative study was
conducted in tertiary care center. Fifty drug-naive PD patients and fifty healthy
controls were included and assessed on Modified Hoehn and Yahr scale, PD
Questionnaire 8, Kolkata cognitive screening battery, General Health Questionnaire-
12, and Hamilton Anxiety and Depression Rating Scale (HAM-A and HAM-D).
RESULTS: The mean scores of HAM-A and HAM-D of patients with PD were
significantly higher than that of the comparison group. The patients with PD had
statistically significant impairment in verbal fluency, Mini-Mental State Examination,
calculation, memory immediate recall, visuoconstructional ability, and memory
(delayed recall and recognition) in comparison to patients without PD. No statistically
significant difference was observed with respect to object naming between the two
groups.
CONCLUSION: QoL of a PD patient is adversely affected by both the motor and
nonmotor symptoms of the disease such as depression, anxiety, apathy, sleep
disturbances, and cognitive impairment. The link between nonmotor symptoms and
reduced QoL has important implications for the management of PD because the
nonmotor symptoms often appear before patients are given anti-parkinsonian
therapy. Screening of nonmotor symptoms in early stage of disease will decrease the
morbidity and mortality and improve the QoL.
Copyright: © 2019 Industrial Psychiatry Journal.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Dhar, Subhendu Shekhar, Jeenger, Jitendra, Singroha, Vikas, Sharma, Manu,
Mathur, Devendra Mohan
Institution
Dhar, Subhendu Shekhar. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and
Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.   Jeenger, Jitendra. Department of Psychiatry,
Geetanjali Medical College and Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Singroha, Vikas. Department of Psychiatry, Saheed Hasan Khan Mewati
Government Medical College, Nuh, Haryana, India.
Sharma, Manu. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and Hospital,
Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Mathur, Devendra Mohan. Department of Psychiatry, Geetanjali Medical College and
Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
  
 
 
95.
  
Comparative Study of Cognitive Function Between Treatment-Resistant Depressive
Patients and First-Episode Depressive Patients.
Rao D, Xu G, Lu Z, Liang H, Lin K, Tang M
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3411-3417, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31849475
OBJECTIVE: Despite reports of cognitive dysfunction during the acute phase of
depression, there is a lack of studies in patients with treatment-resistant depression
(TRD). The aim of this study was to investigate the cognitive function profile of TRD
and compare cognitive dysfunction between subjects with TRD and first-episode
depression.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 31 patients with TRD and 53 with
first-episode depression. Cognitive function was assessed by a series of
neuropsychological tools such as the verbal fluency test, Modified Wisconsin Card
Sorting Test (M-WCST), Tower of Hanoi test, Chinese-revision of the Wechsler Adult
Intelligence Scale (WAIS-RC), and Trail Making Test A and B.
RESULTS: There were no significant demographic differences between the TRD,
first-episode depression, and normal control groups (gender, age, years of
education). The full-scale, verbal, and performance intelligence quotients measured
with the WAIS-RC were also not significantly different (p>0.05). The normal group
scores were all significantly better than TRD and first-episode depression, and the
TRD group performed significantly worse than subjects with first-episode depression
on Trail Making Test B, two WCST subscales, and the profile score of the Tower of
Hanoi test (all p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Patients with depression exhibited global impairments in cognitive
function, and these were more common in TRD. Poor executive function may play an
important role in TRD.
Copyright © 2019 Rao et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Rao, Dongping; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7629-9879   Lu, Zenghong;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1565-9708 
Authors Full Name
Rao, Dongping, Xu, Guiyun, Lu, Zenghong, Liang, Huiwei, Lin, Kangguang, Tang,
Muni
Institution
Rao, Dongping. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of
Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's
Republic of China.   Xu, Guiyun. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain
Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou,
People's Republic of China.
Lu, Zenghong. The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical University, Jiangxi,
People's Republic of China.
Liang, Huiwei. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of Guangzhou
Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's Republic of
China.
Lin, Kangguang. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of
Guangzhou Medical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's
Republic of China.
Tang, Muni. Department of Psychiatry, The Affiliated Brain Hospital of GuangzhouMedical University (Guangzhou Huiai Hospital), Guangzhou, People's Republic of
China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
96.
  
Discourse in aging: Narrative and Persuasive.
Babaei Z, Ghayoumi-Anaraki Z, Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari B
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 13(4):444-449, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31844499
The growth in the elderly population has posed a social, economic and health
challenge for the twenty-first century.
OBJECTIVE: Aging is often characterized by changes in cognitive functions which
affect the receptive and expressive capabilities of language. Since language plays a
significant role in human life, we evaluate the existence of age-related differences in
narrative and persuasive discourses.
METHODS: The narrative discourse of 91 adults and persuasive discourse of 92
adults,aged from 19 to 75 years and stratified into four age groups,were examined.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference between coherence in the
elderly group and each of the other three age groups for both types of discourse.
There was also a significant difference for the cohesion variable between the elderly
and the first age group for narrative discourse only.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrate that discourse is influenced by
aging and type (genre) of discourse task. Therefore, it is essential for clinicians to
take into account the linguistic needs of elderly and incorporate these into their
clinical programs. Also, this finding can help clinicians to distinguish between
discourses of normal aging and other neurologic disorders (for example dementia,
right hemisphere damage, aphasia).
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8733-1392 
Authors Full Name
Babaei, Zahra, Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra, Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari, Behrooz
Institution
Babaei, Zahra. MSc, Department of Speech Therapy, University of Social Welfare
and Rehabilitation Sciences, Tehran, Iran.   Ghayoumi-Anaraki, Zahra.
PhD,Department of Speech Therapy, School of Paramedical Sciences, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
Mahmoodi-Bakhtiari, Behrooz. PhD, Department of Performing Arts, University of
Tehran, Tehran, IR Iran.
Other Abstract
Publisher
O aumento da populacao idosa colocou um desafio social, economico e de saudepara o seculo XXI.OBJETIVO: O envelhecimento e frequentemente caracterizado
pela presenca de alteracoes nas funcoes cognitivas que afetam as capacidades
receptivas e expressivas da linguagem. Como a linguagem desempenha um papel
significativo na vida humana, avaliamos a existencia de diferencas relacionadas a
idade nos discursos narrativos e persuasivos.METODOS: O discurso narrativo de 91
adultos e o discurso persuasivo de 92 adultos com idade entre 19 e 75 anos,
divididos em quatro faixas etarias, foram examinados.RESULTADOS: Existe uma
diferenca estatisticamente significativa entre a coerencia no grupo de
envelhecimento e cada um dos outros tres grupos nos dois tipos de discursos. Existe
tambem uma diferenca significativa para a variavel coesao entre idosos e a primeira
faixa etaria apenas no discurso narrativo.CONCLUSAO: Os resultados deste estudo
demonstram que o discurso e influenciado pelo envelhecimento e tipo da tarefa
discursiva. Portanto, e essencial que os medicos levem em consideracao as
necessidades linguisticas dos idosos e as incorporem em seus programas clinicos.
Alem disso, esses resultados ajudam os medicos a distinguir entre discursos de
envelhecimento normal e outros disturbios neurologicos (por exemplo, demencia,
lesoes do hemisferio direito, afasia).
Language: Portuguese
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
97.
  
Cognitive performance of children with spinal muscular atrophy: A systematic review.
 
Polido GJ, de Miranda MMV, Carvas N, Mendonca RH, Caromano FA, Reed UC,
Zanoteli E, Voos MC
Dementia & Neuropsychologia. 13(4):436-443, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31844498
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is genetic and progressive, caused by large bi-allelic
deletions in the SMN1 gene, or the association of a large deletion and a null variant.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the evidence about cognitive outcomes in spinal muscular
atrophy (SMA).
METHODS: Searches on the PUBMED/Medline, Web of Knowledge and Scielo
databases retrieved 26 studies (1989 to 2019, descriptors "spinal muscular atrophy"
and "cognition"). Nine studies were selected according to the eligibility criteria: (1)
cognition tested in individuals with SMA; (2) written in English or Spanish. The Risk
of Bias in Non-Randomized Studies of Interventions was used to describe design,
bias, participants, evaluation protocol and main findings. This study was registered
on the International prospective register of systematic reviews (PROSPERO).
RESULTS: Three studies described normal cognition. In another three studies,
cognitive outcomes were above average. Cognitive impairment was found in three
studies. Poor cognitive performance was more frequently reported in studies that
were recent, included children with SMA type I and that employed visual/auditory
attention and executive function tests. Protocols and cognitive domains varied,
precluding metanalysis.
CONCLUSION: The severity of motor impairment may be related to cognitiveoutcomes: studies that included a higher number/percentage of children with SMA
type I found cognitive impairment. The establishment of gold-standard protocols is
necessary. Further studies should compare the cognitive outcomes of subjects with
SMA types I to IV.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Voos, Mariana Callil; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6252-7287 
Authors Full Name
Polido, Graziela Jorge, de Miranda, Mariana Mangini Vaz, Carvas, Nelson,
Mendonca, Rodrigo de Holanda, Caromano, Fatima Aparecida, Reed, Umbertina
Conti, Zanoteli, Edmar, Voos, Mariana Callil
Institution
Polido, Graziela Jorge. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.   de Miranda,
Mariana Mangini Vaz. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Carvas, Nelson. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Saude do Instituto de
Assistencia Medica ao Servidor Publico Estadual de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Mendonca, Rodrigo de Holanda. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de
Neurologia Clinica, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Caromano, Fatima Aparecida. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da
Reabilitacao, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Reed, Umbertina Conti. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de Neurologia
Clinica, Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Zanoteli, Edmar. Departamento de Neurologia, Departamento de Neurologia Clinica,
Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Voos, Mariana Callil. Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ciencias da Reabilitacao,
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Sao Paulo, SP, Brasil.
Other Abstract
Publisher
A atrofia muscular espinhal (SMA) e genetica e progressiva, causada por grandes
delecoes bi-alelicas no gene SMN1, ou pela associacao de uma grande delecao e
uma variante nula.OBJETIVO: Avaliar as evidencias sobre o desempenho cognitivo
na atrofia muscular espinhal (AME).METODOS: Pesquisas nas bases de dados
PUBMED/ Medline, Web of Knowledge e Scielo localizaram 26 estudos (1989 a
2019, descritores "atrofia muscular espinhal" e "cognicao"). Nove estudos foram
selecionados de acordo com os criterios de elegibilidade: (1) testaram a cognicao
em pessoas com AME; (2) escritos em ingles/espanhol. A avaliacao do risco de vies
em estudos com intervencoes nao-randomizadas foi utilizada para descrever o
desenho experimental, vies, amostra, protocolo de avaliacao e principais achados.
Este estudo foi aprovado no Registro Internacional Prospectivo de Revisoes
Sistematicas (PROSPERO).RESULTADOS: Em tres estudos, foi registrado que a
cognicao estava preservada. Em tres estudos, o desempenho cognitivo estava
acima da media. O comprometimento cognitivo foi encontrado em tres estudos.
Desempenho cognitivo pobre foi mais frequentemente relatado em estudos recentes,
estudos que incluiram criancas com AME tipo I e estudos que incluiram atencao
visual/auditiva e testes de funcao executiva. Protocolos e dominios cognitivos
variaram muito, portanto nao foi possivel a realizacao de metanalise.CONCLUSAO:
A gravidade do comprometimento motor pode estar relacionada ao desempenho
cognitivo: estudos que incluiram maior numero/porcentagem de criancas com AME
tipo I encontraram alteracoes no desempenho cognitivo. O estabelecimento de
protocolos padrao-ouro e necessario. Novos estudos devem comparar o
desempenho cognitivo de pessoas com AME tipos I a IV, ou seja, com diferencas no
prognostico e no desempenho motor.
Language: PortugueseYear of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
98.
  
Traditional Chinese Medicine Shenmayizhi Decoction Ameliorates Memory And
Cognitive Impairment Induced By Scopolamine Via Preventing Hippocampal
Cholinergic Dysfunction In Rats.
Wu Q, Cao Y, Liu M, Liu F, Brantner AH, Yang Y, Wei Y, Zhou Y, Wang Z, Ma L,
Wang F, Pei H, Li H
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3167-3176, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31814724
PURPOSE: Clinical trials have illustrated that Shenmayizhi decoction (SMYZ) could
improve the cognitive functions in patients with dementia. However, the mechanism
needs to be explored.
METHODS: Fifty adult male rats (Wistar strain) were divided into five groups equally
and randomly, including control, model, and SMYZ of low dose, medium dose and
high dose. Rats in each group received a daily gavage of respective treatment. Rats
in control and model group were administrated by the same volume of distilled water.
Memory impairment was induced by intraperitoneal administration of scopolamine
(0.7 mg/kg) for 5 continuous days. Four weeks later, Morris water maze (MWM) was
performed to evaluate the spatial memory in all rats. Then, rats were sacrificed and
the hippocampus was removed for further tests. Furthermore, Western blot analysis
was employed to assess the levels of acetylcholine M1 receptor (M1), acetylcholine
M2 receptor (M2), acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and cholineacetyltransferase (ChAT).
AChE and ChAT activities were determined.
RESULTS: The SMYZ decoction significantly improved behavioral performance of
rats in high dose. The SMYZ decoction in three doses exhibited anti-
acetylcholinesterase activity. In addition, a high dose of SMYZ promoted ChAT
activity. Moreover, a high dose of SMYZ increased the level of ChAT and declined
the level of AChE assessed by Western blotting. Besides, an increased level of M1
receptor was found after treatment.
CONCLUSION: Shenmayizhi decoction could mitigate scopolamine-induced
cognitive deficits through the preventative effect on cholinergic system dysfunction.
Copyright © 2019 Wu et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Wu, Qiong; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1653-3683   Cao, Yu; ORCID:
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1211-1122 
Liu, Meixia; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3277-8004 
Brantner, Adelheid H; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7812-9291 
Yang, Yang; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0536-8416 
Wang, Feixue; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3800-5160 
Li, Hao; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8502-2556 Authors Full Name
Wu, Qiong, Cao, Yu, Liu, Meixia, Liu, Fang, Brantner, Adelheid H, Yang, Yang, Wei,
Yun, Zhou, Yu, Wang, Zhiyong, Ma, Lina, Wang, Feixue, Pei, Hui, Li, Hao
Institution
Wu, Qiong. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.   Wu, Qiong.
Department of Ophthalmology, Dongfang Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, Beijing 100078, People's Republic of China.
Cao, Yu. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Liu, Meixia. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Liu, Fang. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Brantner, Adelheid H. Department of Pharmacognosy, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
Yang, Yang. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Wei, Yun. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Zhou, Yu. Department of Polymer Chemistry, Zernike Institute for Advanced
Materials, Groningen 9747 AG, The Netherlands.
Wang, Zhiyong. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Ma, Lina. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Wang, Feixue. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Pei, Hui. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Li, Hao. Department of Geriatrics, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of Chinese
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100091, People's Republic of China.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
99.
  
Reversion From Mild Cognitive Impairment To Normal Cognition: False-Positive Error
Or True Restoration Thanks To Cognitive Control Ability?.
Chung JY, Yoon HJ, Kim H, Choi KY, Lee JJ, Lee KH, Seo EH
Neuropsychiatric Disease & Treatment. 15:3021-3032, 2019.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31749620
PURPOSE: Relatively little attention has been paid to the meaning of reversion from
mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to cognitively normal (CN), compared to MCI
progression studies. The purpose of the study was to investigate the characteristics
contributing to reversion from MCI to CN and to identify the associated factors with
such reversion.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively identified 200 individuals who
initially diagnosed as MCI and completed the second visit from the National
Research Center for Dementia (NRCD) registry in Korea. Participants underwent
comprehensive clinical and neuropsychological assessments. Factors associated
with reversion were examined by a independent-samples t-test, chi2 test, and logistic
regression. Longitudinal change was examined by a repeated measures analysis of
variance (rANOVA).
RESULTS: Based on the second assessment, 78 (39%) individuals were found to
have reverted to CN (rMCI) and 118 (59%) remained with MCI (sMCI). Four (2%)
progressed to Alzheimer's disease dementia and they were excluded from further
analysis. Over a wide range of socio-demographic, clinical, and neuropsychological
variables, group difference was significant only in neuropsychological tests of
cognitive control. Both groups showed improvement in several neuropsychological
tests, implying a practice effect, but the rMCI group showed greater improvement.
CONCLUSION: Reversion from MCI to CN might not be a false-positive error but a
true recovery from cognitive impairment. Our results suggest that cognitive control
ability may be a characteristic favorable for the restoration of cognitive function.
Therefore, assessment of cognitive control might facilitate the development of
appropriate interventions for MCI as well as prognosis evaluation.
Copyright © 2019 Chung et al.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Author NameID
Yoon, Hyung-Jun; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3087-8853   Kim, Hoowon;
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5973-0559 
Lee, Kun Ho; ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4144-8162 
Authors Full Name
Chung, Ji-Yeon, Yoon, Hyung-Jun, Kim, Hoowon, Choi, Kyu Yeong, Lee, Jang Jae,
Lee, Kun Ho, Seo, Eun Hyun
Institution
Chung, Ji-Yeon. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.   Chung, Ji-Yeon. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine,
Chosun University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Yoon, Hyung-Jun. Department of Neuropsychiatry, College of Medicine, Chosun
University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Kim, Hoowon. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University, Gwangju,
Korea.
Kim, Hoowon. Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Chosun
University/Chosun University Hospital, Gwangju, Korea.
Choi, Kyu Yeong. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Jang Jae. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University, Gwangju,
Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. Department of Biomedical Science, College of Natural Sciences,
Chosun University, Gwangju, Korea.
Lee, Kun Ho. Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain
Research Institute, Daegu, Korea.
Seo, Eun Hyun. National Research Center for Dementia, Chosun University,
Gwangju, Korea.
Seo, Eun Hyun. Department of Premedical Science, College of Medicine, Chosun
University, Gwangju, Korea.
Year of Publication
2019
  
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 
 
 
100.
  
Antibody Negative Autoimmune Encephalitis- Does it Differ from Definite One?.
Pradhan S, Das A, Das A, Mulmuley M
Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology. 22(4):401-408, 2019 Oct-Dec.
[Journal Article]
UI: 31736559
CONTEXT: Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) is an emerging cause of non-infective
encephalitis, presentations of which vary widely. Traditionally the diagnosis of AE is
based on detection of antibodies in a patient with clinical picture suggestive of AE.
AIM: To evaluate the clinical characteristics and response to immunotherapy in
patients with antibody negative autoimmune encephalitis and to compare them with
definite cases.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: A prospective follow-up study was done in patients
presenting with presumptive symptoms of AE from January 2017 to January 2019.
The study was done in a tertiary care institute of Northern India.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Demographic and clinical parameters were noted and
relevant investigations for management were done according to well-defined
protocol. The patients were treated with immunomodulatory therapy in the form of
steroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg). They were followed up for
treatment response and relapse at 2 monthly intervals.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: The data was expressed as either proportions or
mean/median. Chi-square test/Independent T test was used to compare antibody
positive and antibody negative group.
RESULTS: Out of 31 patients with presumptive AE, 16 patients tested positive for
autoimmune antibodies (definite AE). Incidences of seizure, behavioral abnormalities,
dementia and altered sensorium were similar between the 2 groups (p > 0.05).
Complete or partial response was seen in all treated patients in both groups with no
significant difference (p 0.716). CSF protein concentration and cellularity were higher
in the definite group although only high protein concentration could reach statistical
significance (p 0.002). Malignancy could be confirmed after extensive search in 2 out
of 16 patients with definite AE and in 1 out of 15 antibody negative AE patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical presentation of antibody negative cases does not differ
significantly from definite ones. Since treatment response is also similar in both the
groups, starting immunotherapy in a patient presenting with presumptive symptoms
of AE, while ruling out other common mimickers, seems to be the need of the hour in
the management of this evolving entity.
Copyright: © 2006 - 2019 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Version ID
1
Status
PubMed-not-MEDLINE
Authors Full Name
Pradhan, Sunil, Das, Animesh, Das, Ananya, Mulmuley, Madhura
Institution
Pradhan, Sunil. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.   Das, Animesh.
Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences,Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Das, Ananya. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Mulmuley, Madhura. Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute
of Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Year of Publication
2019
 
 
Link to the Ovid Full Text or citation:
Click here for full text options 
 
Link to the External Link Resolver:
LSE Article Finder 
 
 